Tuesday, January 1 1 John 2:9-11
LIVE IN LOVE AND LIGHT
Whoever loves his brother lives in the light, and there is
nothing in him to make him stumble. 1 John 2:10, NIV
ove is one of the most frequently used words all over
the world. Ironically, it is often misused or
misinterpreted. Love is something that cannot be
touched or bought, yet it is better than money or any earthly
objects. Love, according to wordnetweb is a strong positive
emotion of regard and affection. It does not matter how
many times you use the word, what matters is how often
you act the word to others. Today's passage reminds us of
the importance of loving one another. Love shines light on
our path and gives meaning to our journey in life. Genuine
love expressed in action is what the Lord requires from His
children. This is what truly shows that we are children of
God. The message of love must be a recurring decimal in
the activities of the believers so that we can together
project Christ in a world that has been darkened by hatred.
The virtues of love and light are more urgent in a nation like
ours where the message of the cross is being suppressed
for political aspiration, financial gain, and crave for power.
This new year, the Lord is depending on you, beloved, to
showcase His love and dispel darkness around you.
 Birthday Blessing: No one will be able to stand against
you all the days of your life . I will be with you; I will
never leave nor forsake you. Joshua 1:5
RBT Passage: Genesis 1-4
No man can light a dark heart if the love of Christ is absent
in his life.  Elizabeth Aderounmu
L2
Wednesday, January 2 1 John 2:20-27
LIVE BY THE TRUTH
"but as the same anointing teaches you concerning all
things, and is true, and is not a lie, and just as it has taught
you, you will abide in Him." 1 John 2:27b, NKJV
ruth is perceived as the quality or state of being
based on fact and which is believed by all the people
to be true. Truth in the context of today's text can
also be viewed as a noun, depicting Christ - The truth of
God. The truth about Christ is a universal knowledge that
is being denied by many who are called the anti-christs or
men of lawlessness. They deny that Jesus is the Christ. It is
easy to think that only non-Christians deny the lordship of
Christ unfortunately, many supposed Christians who attend
churches do not believe in the Lord of the Church.
Such people's lives contradict the Word of God. They
tell lies, steal stylishly, malign others, and engage in
divination; they are selfish and so on. What truth do you
know about Christ? This is what will determine the quality of
the life you live. Seek to know more about the faith you
profess so that you will not be easily swayed by lies. If you
are deeply rooted in the Lord, then let this anointing teach
you what is right at all time. Lean not on your own
understanding, in all your ways acknowledge Him and He
shall direct your path.
 Birthday Blessing: Then your light will break forth like
the dawn and your healing will quickly appear. Isa 58:8
RBT Passage: Genesis 5-8
The end of learning is to know God, and out of that
knowledge is to love and imitate Him.  John Milton
T3
Thursday, January 3 3 John 2-8
SUPPORT CO-WORKERS
Beloved, you do faithfully whatever you do for the brother
and for strangers. 3 John 2:5, NKJV
hen the word 'needy' is mentioned, our minds
quickly go to the less privileged and those living in
disadvantaged areas. We forget that everyone,
even people close to us, has one need or the other. There is
something you can do for the person next to you to make
his or her life better. The early church had a deep
understanding of what support meant to the body of Christ.
They therefore provided hospitality for those who worked in
whatever capacity to proclaim Christ.
Support for co-workers in todays context can take
diverse forms. It includes everything we can do to ensure
that peoples dreams are actualized; it means removing
competition, jealousies and rivalries from our midst so that
the gospel message can be proclaimed unhindered. We
must note that in lighting the path of others; our own path
is also lightened. Therefore, before you conclude that some
people do not need help, take a closer look at their lives
and you will discover something you can do to support
them. You can support others by praying for them, giving
them gifts and encouraging them. Lend that helping hand
so that together we can shine for the Lord.
 Birthday Blessing: And my God will meet all your needs
according to the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus.
Philippians 4:19
RBT Passage: Genesis 9-12
Faith is the art of holding on to the things inspite of your
changing moods and circumstance.  C.S. Lewis
W4
Friday, January 4 2 Thessalonians 2:13-17
STAND FIRM IN THE FAITH
Therefore, brethren, stand fast and hold the traditions
which you were taught, whether by word or our epistle.
2 Thessalonians 2:15, NKJV
he world is a quick-sand; it seems harmless, but unfortunately
it sometimes becomes deep wet sand in which careless
believers can quickly sink. The world we live in is full of
danger. This was why Paul encouraged believers to stand firm in
faith without compromising. Apostle Paul sensed the disaster that
was likely to happen to the believers in Thessalonica and, he was
burdened to warn them and at the same time encourage them to
hold fast the things they have learnt about Christ. When we hold on
to our knowledge of Christ, we will have enough strength to
withstand the devices of the enemy.
The decadence in our society can make believer
compromise their faith in God. This is why we need to support
one another in prayers and words of encouragement, so we can
all stand for Christ in our respective duty post. Christian political
candidates need a strong prayer support that will bolster their
courage and fortify them against selling their conscience on the
altar of money and fame. What are those enticements from your
friends that can sway you from the faith? Is it examination
malpractice, alcohol, sex, drug or cultism? You need to seek help
so as not to give in. Do not allow the disaster that is swallowing
the people of the world to overtake you. Choose to stand firm.
 Birthday Blessing: I will instruct you and teach you in the
way you should go. Psalm 32:8
RBT Passage: Genesis 13-17
You can offer ideas to people as bullets or as seeds.
 Richard Halverson
T5
Saturday, January 5 2 Thessalonians 3:6-13
DO WHAT IS RIGHT
But as for you, brethren, do not grow weary in doing good.
2 Thessalonians 3:13, KJV
t is increasingly becoming difficult to distinguish between
right and wrong in today's world. Everywhere you turn,
there is someone justifying the wrong thing, by using the
right reasons. Doing what is right is a function of
understanding what is right and to understand what is right
we have to look in the right direction, which is the Word of
God. Paul warns believers to dissociate themselves from
people that are working against the Word of God.
The Knowledge of Christ and total commitment to it are
determinants of doing things that are pleasing to God. How
much of Christ we know, the extent of our surrender to Him
will inform what we do or say when the goings are rough.
The fear of isolation or being called names by peers can
make doing right discouraging. As a child of God, however
you, do not have an alternative outside of doing that which
is right. Encourage yourself and other believers around you
in right living because you are children of a God who is
never wearied of doing good. By this you show you are
God's child.
 Birthday Blessing: Your descendants will take
possession of the cities of their enemies. Genesis
26:17
RBT Passage: Genesis 18-20
Be like a postage stamp, stick to one thing until you get
there.  Margaret Carty
I6
Sunday, January 6 2 Thessalonians 3:1-5; 2 John 4:11
LOVE GOD AND ONE ANOTHER
Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one
another. 1 John 4:11, NKJV
howing Gods kind of love to one another is the
demand of todays devotion. God, out of love provides
for man beyond his daily needs. He gives rain and
sunshine indiscriminately; shields man from dangers seen
and unseen. God wants you to measure up to His standard.
in the way you love fellow humans.
The gospel is being combated and challenged today
because believers have failed to discharge their
responsibilities to one another. You may truly love God as
shown by your church attendance, giving towards church
needs and such similar activities, but how much do you
care for others around you? True love for God can only be
evident in how we deal with one another in the school,
office, market, football field, neighbourhood and other
places. Demonstrate God's unconditional love to someone
today.
 Birthday Blessing: There is surely a future hope for you,
and your hope will not be cut off. Proverbs 23:18
RBT Passage: Genesis 21-23
Do all the good you can, by all means you can, in all ways
you can, in all the places you can, at all times you can, to
all people you can, as long as you can  John Wesley
S7
Monday, January 7 Matthew 23:1-11
ONE TEACHER, MANY STUDENTS
"Nor are you to be called 'teacher,' for you have one
Teacher, the Christ." Matthew 23:10, NIV
ne of the greatest challenges of teaching is the
ability to strike a balance between what we say and
what we do. It takes courage, discipline and
determination because some things are easy to teach but
hard to practice. This, however, does not change the fact
that it is expected of every teacher to first teach in action
before words. Jesus encouraged His followers, including His
disciples, to obey the teaching of the Pharisees and the
Sadducees, but He warned them never to follow their
deeds. This is because their actions are against their
teaching.
Many church leaders of nowadays are like these
people. They say one thing and act another. Many leaders
have misled a lot of people because of their way of life.
While it is not wrong to have models and people that inspire
us to be better, planning our lives after theirs without giving
room for God's direction might led to ruin. Jesus, in today's
text, made it clear that He is the only worthy Teacher to be
emulated. Therefore, it is wrong to make any one our
standard as believers. We should continually look up to
Christ the great Teacher. As a leader can God depend on
you to lead other right both in your words and action?
 Birthday Blessing: I will confirm my covenant between
me and you and will greatly increase your numbers.
Genesis 17:2
RBT Passage: Genesis 24-25
"Behaviour is the mirror in which everyone shows his
image." Johann Wolfgang von Goethe
O8
Tuesday, January 8 1Corinthians 12:19-26
MEMBERS DEPEND ON EACH OTHER
If one part suffers, every part suffers with it; if one part is
honored, every part rejoices with it 1 Corinthians 12:26,
o one knew the importance of a church sexton until
Mr James suddenly fell sick one Saturday night and
he could not perform his duty of putting the church
building in order for the Sunday worship service. Many
things were affected that day. This gives credence to what
we are being taught in todays text. There is no useless part
of the body. God has put every part of the human body
there for a specific purpose. Each part is important in its
own right and no part can perform the function of the other.
One may not know how important every part of the body is
until one of them is injured and every other part suffers.
Your role as a member of the Church is important. Do
not consider yourself insignificant or your role inferior; you
are important to the body of Christ. Let each one of us be
faithful in any assignment given to us and let us respect
other people around us no matter the nature of their work.
We cannot function in isolation because we defend on one
another. As each part of the body is important and none is
useless; so we depend on each other for success in life.
 Birthday Blessing: Look to the Lord and his strength;
seek his face always. Psalms 105: 4
RBT Passage: Genesis 26-28
If you want to touch the past, touch a rock. If you want to
touch the present, touch a flower. If you want to touch the
future, touch a life.  Anonymous
N9
Wednesday, January 9 Matthew 5:21-26
SOLVE CONFLICTS ONE TO ONE
Therefore, if you are offering your gift at the altar and
there remember that your brother or sister has something
against you.First go and be reconciled to them; then
come and offer your gift Matthew 5:23-24, NIV
he Holy Spirit convicted a pastor as he was about to drive
to the church on Sunday morning after fighting with his
wife. He was to preach on family matter The Spirit of the
Lord asked him how effective his message would be if he went
to preach with bitterness in his heart against his wife.
Immediately, he jumped out of the car and ran inside the house
to seek peace with his wife before he took off to the church.
Relationship matters so much to God. And that is why
the Bible teaches us how to live in peace with others. Jesus'
teaching in today's text centres on having due regard for
other people through our speech, conduct, action and
reaction. We should not call anybody a fool or be angry
with others for long. Our worship service is unacceptable to
God if we hold a grudge and have unforgiving spirit. We are
to settle every conflict with people before we approach the
altar of God so as to obtain favour from Him. You cannot be
fighting people and claim to be worshiping God in spirit and
in truth. Take action now and reconcile with whoever you
have a quarrel with. It is likely the answers to your prayers
are delayed because of your unforgiving spirit.
 Birthday Blessing: Very soon my anger against you will
end and my wrath will be directed to their destruction.
Isa 10: 25
RBT Passage: Genesis 29-31
Go out into the world and do good until there is too much
good in the world  Larry H. Miller
T10
Thursday, January 10 Psalm 42
LONGING FOR GODS HELP
My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When can I go
and meet with God? Psalm 42:2
othing gives the human soul satisfaction as being in
the presence of God. This is the secret behind the
peace and joy David, the great psalmist, enjoyed. His
life was full of trouble and persecution because of the
anointing he carried. He was close to death many times,
running from one bush to the other to escape the arrow of
his enemies. But he overcame all because he knew how to
tarry in Gods presence. Those who have learnt to tarry in
Gods presence have always find peace for their souls.
David sought the presence of God like a thirsty deer
seeks for water. He saw God as his Shepherd who provides
sufficiently for him in all things and at every time. And he
always sought Him for help. What are the challenges you
are facing that seem greater than you? Do not give up and
do not be dismayed. Seek the face of God now and crave
His presence. Address your soul like the psalmist, Why, my
soul, are you downcast? Why so disturbed within me? Put
your hope in God, for I will yet praise him, my Saviour and
my God (vv. 42:5, 11) The Lord is not as far as you think.
He is ready to fill the vacuum in your heart if only you will
invite Him. You can do that now.
 Birthday Blessing: Ill-gotten treasures have no lasting
value, but righteousness delivers from death. Prov.
10: 2
RBT Passage: Genesis 32-35
"God bestows His blessings without discrimination."
 F.F. Bruce
N11
Friday, January 11 Romans 6:1-14
WALK IN NEWNESS OF LIFE
Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that
you obey its evil desires. Romans 6:12
his is a dangerous generation where people take
liberty for license and commit sin in the name of
fashion and modernization. It is a time people find
attractive names for iniquity in order to align with what is in
vogue. The spiritual sight of many people is becoming dim
so much that they cannot discern clear instruction of the
Bible on holy living. The incursion of worldliness into the
Church is manifesting in false teachings through which
some Christian leaders are hastening the footsteps of
people to hell. It is indeed a perilous time!
The Bible stresses that we cannot live in sin and pray
that grace of God will increase upon our lives (v.1). There is
no one who has genuinely tasted the joy of salvation in
Christ Jesus that can enjoy sin. The main purpose of our
salvation is to cleanse our sins and restore us to life of
purity and righteousness. A saved life can no more tell lies,
watch pornography and films; commit adultery and hate
others. When the Spirit of God takes over, flesh must
surrender. Check your life and submit to Jesus Christ now!
Call the Holy Spirit to come and indwell you that you may
always be obedient to Him and deny your sinful nature. This
is what it means to walk in newness of life.
 Birthday Blessing: Turn from evil and do good; seek
peace and pursue it. Psalms 34:14
RBT Passage: Genesis 36-38
You cant build a great building on a weak foundation. You
must have a solid foundation if you re going to have a
strong superstructure.  Gordon B. Hinckley
T12
Saturday, January 12 James 4:13-17
BOASTING AN INSULT TO GOD
As it is, you boast in your arrogant schemes. All such
boasting is evil James 4:16
oasting is a product of pride, and the proud is an
enemy of God. Pharaoh boasted against God; God
killed him and all his soldiers in one day.
Nebuchadnezzar, in his pride taught he owned the world;
God reduced him to a beast eating grass in the bush for
seven years. Herod, in arrogance took the glory of God; he
was eaten up alive by worms. These were powerful people
in history who ended up shamefully because of pride. Peter,
one of Jesus disciples boasted in self-confidence not to
deny His Master but fell at the face of challenge.
Todays passage encourages us to put God first in
everything we do. God should be at the centre of our plans
because He is the owner of our lives. We should not be like
the foolish farmer who put himself at the center of his plan,
with no regard to God. He lost everything before the dawn of
another day (Luke 12:13-21). Learn to be submissive to the
will of God. You and all that you have are Gods property. You
should not leave Him out of all your projections in life.
Economists end their projections by saying: all things being
equal. Jesus taught us to pray: Thy Will be done. Children
of God should always end their plans with: If God wishes.
Recognize His sovereignty over your life and stop boasting.
 Birthday Blessing: Submit to God and be at peace with
Him; in this way prosperity will come to you. Job 22:21
RBT Passage: Genesis 39-41
There is no event so commonplace but that God is
present, leaving you room to recognize or not to recognize
Him. Frederick Buechner
B13
Sunday, January 13 James 4:1-10
GODLY APPROACH TO WORLDLINESS
Submit, then, yourselves to God. Resist the devil, and he
will flee from you James 4:7
he faith of Charles came under serious test when he
traveled abroad for further studies. He had served as
the president of his schools Christian fellowship in
Nigeria where he lived and taught holy living. He found
himself in the midst of sinners and was tempted to
compromise. However, Charles stood his ground and chose
to be on the Lords side. He testified that he would always
remember, friendship with the world means enmity against
God (v. 4).
In the quest to be like Romans in Rome, many people
have missed the Kingdom track. It takes special grace of
God not to fall into series of temptations luring people into
hell at this age. Ungodly lifestyle is rampant and only the
spiritually sensitive ones will overcome. However, God has
not left His children without a guide. He offered us the right
approach to worldliness. We are to submit to God, resist
every attempt of the devil and be aware of his devices.
Pursue purity and humility by all means. The Bible warns,
Do not conform to the pattern of this world, but be
transformed by the renewing of your mind. Then you will be
able to test and approve whats Gods will is  his good,
pleasing and perfect will (Romans 12:2).
 Birthday Blessing: Anyone who does wrong will be
repaid for their wrongs, and there is no favouritism.
Colossians 3:25
RBT Passage: Genesis 42-43
"The true test of conviction is how we respond when
everything opposes our faith." T.Thomas
T14
Monday, January 14 Genesis 45:1-8
GOD SENT ME TO PRESERVE YOU
But God sent me ahead of you to preserve for you a
remnant on earth and to save your lives by a great
deliverance Genesis 45:7
here is power in vision. One of the major factors for
leadership success is vision. An example of a leader
that conceived and lived by vision in the Bible is
Joseph, the son of Jacob. On different occasions when he
should have behaved contrary to his vision, Joseph did not
allow circumstances to change his God-given vision. When
he should have justifiably taken revenge against his
brothers, Joseph stood by his vision. He knew God has sent
him ahead of his brothers to save their lives and preserve a
remnant for the house of Israel. He said this repeatedly
(Gen. 45:5, 7; 50:20). This was in line with the purpose of
God for the children of Israel (Gen. 46:3-4).
God used Joseph to incubate the family of Jacob to
become a nation of Israel. What has God sent you here to
do and achieve? A visionless life is a purposeless, useless
and fruitless life. Have you got hold of the purpose for your
existence? Hold it firmly. The pursuit of your purpose for
living will determine your success in life. If you have not
discovered your life's purpose, it is not too late to approach
the throne of grace now for direction. Let your life be a
blessing to your generation.
 Birthday Blessing:  As you come to Him, the living
Stone- rejected by humans but chosen by God and
precious to him 1 Peter 2:4
RBT Passage: Genesis 44-46
Act as if what you do makes a difference, it does.
 Williams James
T15
Tuesday, January 15 Numbers 11:24-30
THE SPIRIT RESTED ON THE ELDERS
He took some of the power of the Spirit that was on him
and put it on the seventy elders. When the Spirit rested on
them, they prophesied Numbers 11: 25
It is a popular saying that the most difficult set of humans
to lead is human being. For one human being to lead
another human being takes a lot of effort and a level of
spiritual authority. In essence, leadership requires the
power of the Holy Spirit to succeed. When Moses asked for
more hands to carry out his leadership role, God took part
of His Spirit in him and poured it on the seventy chosen
elders and they prophesied. Jesus instructed his disciples
to wait until they receive the power of the Holy Spirit (Acts
1:4). Of course, these disciples could not do anything until
the Holy Spirit came upon them (Acts 2).
There are other spirits that are not of God which lead
people today. However, Jesus says, by their fruits you shall
know them (Matt. 7:16). Every child of God should be able
to discern the spirit leading their leaders before submitting
to such authority. The Bible says we should test every spirit
to be sure of the ones that are genuine (1 John 4:1). Any
spirit that works contrary to the revealed Word of God is of
the devil. Let the Spirit of God indwell you.
 Birthday Blessing: To the one who is victorious and
does my will to the end, I will give authority over the
nations. Revelations 2: 26
RBT Passage: Genesis 47-50
It takes each of you to make a difference for all of us
 Jackie Mutcheson16
Wednesday, January 16 1 Corinthians 4:8-13
APOSTLES ARE FOOLS FOR CHRIST
We are fools for Christ, but you are so wise in Christ! We
are weak, but you are strong! You are honoured, we are
dishonoured 1 Corinthians 4:10
young lady refused to surrender her life to Christ after
being witnessed to by her friend. The major reason she
gave was Christianity is a foolish man's religion. She said
Jesus taught His followers to love their enemies and do good to
those who hate them. He also urged his followers to turn the
right cheek when they slapped the left. It takes a foolish person
to abide by these injunctions, she concluded. Paul, in todays
passage says apostles are fools for Christ. This means they
were completely sold to following and obeying Christ and could
not claim any right, as any other person outside Christ could do.
No one can do this without looking like a fool to the world.
However, there is a need to understand that the message of
the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to those
who have been saved it is the power of God (1 Cor. 1:18).
Are you looking like a fool in some ways because of your
determination to fully obey the Lord? Are you trying to
compromise some areas of your life so you can look wise to
the world? It is possible some people are making jest of you
because of your stand in Christ. It is good to be a fool in Christ
for the reward is unquantifiable. Those who played it wise
yesterday are regretting it today. Stand on the path of honour.
 Birthday Blessing: Submit to God and be at peace with
him; in this prosperity will come to you. Job 21:22
RBT Passage: Exodus 1-4
There is no event so commonplace but that God is present,
leaving you room to recognize or not to recognize Him.
 Frederick Buechner
A17
Thursday, January 17 Philippians 1:22-26
SHARING LIFE IN CHRIST NOW
through my being with you again your joy in Christ Jesus
will overflow on account of me Philippians 1:26, NIV
here are usually three reactions to the demise of a
person. Some would be sorrowful because of the
gains they derive from the life of the deceased; some
may be happy because of the trouble that would end with
the exit of the person from the world while some may not be
moved because the life of the deceased had no
consequence for them.
Paul once struggled on the decision to go and rest in the
Lord or to continue to live. He counted dying as more
profitable to him because that would mean rest to him.
However, he preferred to continue to live so as to add value
to the body of Christ. Pauls concept of living was to be a
blessing to his generation. We have a lesson to learn from
Paul. Our lives must be blessings to our generation. God
has not preserved us for our own selfish reasons. Jesus
saved us so that we can be instruments of positive change
to others. . People must derive great benefits from our lives
wherever we find ourselves. Let your life add value to your
constituency.
 Birthday Blessing: For it is not those who hear the law
who are righteous in Gods sight, but it is those who
obey the law who will be declared righteous. Romans
2:13
RBT Passage: Exodus 5-7
What grieves you is a clue to something you are assigned
to heal. What you hate is a clue to something you are
assigned to correct. - Mike Murdock
T18
Friday, January 18 Philippians 1:27-30
BELIEVING IN AND SUFFERING FOR CHRIST
For it has been granted to you on behalf of Christ not only
to believe on him, but also to suffer for him Phil 1:29-30
fter a powerful and inspired message on commitment
at a seminary chapel, the student preacher gave an
invitation to those who are ready to suffer for Christ.
The response was not very encouraging. This is the trend in
the church today; people claim to believe in Christ but are
not ready to suffer for Him. Children of God should not be
swept away by popular prosperity message of today. Jesus
did not call his disciples to come and enjoy with him but
rather to carry their cross daily and follow him (Luke
9:23). This invitation has not been reviewed.
Our faith in Christ may bring some elements of
suffering some times. We need to understand that we have
been granted grace not just to believe in Christ but to also
suffer for His sake, if that will bring glory to God and
advance the course of the gospel. We should all be ready to
forsake our comfort zones for the sake of Christ and his
gospel. Some people paid for what we are enjoying today
we should be willing to sacrifice for others as well. Be ready
to pay whatever is required of you to promote the kingdom
of God.
 Birthday Blessing: For if we have been united with him
in a death like his, we will certainly also be united with
him in a resurrection like him Romans 6;5
RBT Passage: Exodus 8-10
Whether were aware of it or not, at every moment of our
existence were encountering God who is trying todraw
us into a reciprocal conscious relationship.  William Barry
A19
Saturday, January 19 Philippians 1:3-11
SHARING GODS GRACE
It is right for me to feel this way about all of you, since I
have you in my heart; for whether I am in chains or
defending and confirming the gospel, all of you share in
God's grace with me Philippians 1:7, NIV
group of people visited a mission field sometime.
They saw what the missionary couple was passing
through and felt sorry for them. To the visitors
surprise, the missionaries responded cheerfully and said
they enjoyed what they were doing because the grace of
God had always been sufficient for them.
Our interpretation of the grace of God most times is
about enjoyment of life. Paul, in todays passage shows us
another dimension of the grace of God. Sharing in the grace
of God involves standing by or partnering with those who
are proclaiming the gospel of salvation by whatever means.
It is by Gods grace we have a part in the gospel. We share
this grace when we work as a team to spread the gospel.
Are there some ways you need to share Gods grace? Have
you been overlooking some contributions you can make to
hold the weak hands of those spreading the gospel? Decide
to share the grace that has been given to you in the gospel.
Dont take this grace in vain.
 Birthday Blessing: No longer will they teach their
neighbours, or say to one another, Know the Lord,
because they will all know me, from the least of them
to the greatest. Hebrews 8:11
RBT Passage: Exodus 11-13
'Dont treat people the way they treat you. Treat people the
way God treats.  Dave Willis
A20
Sunday, January 20 Philippians 1:12-21
TELLING THE GOOD NEWS
Because of my chains, most of the brothers in the Lord
have been encouraged to speak the word of God more
courageously and fearlessly Philippians 1:14, NIV
ear has been one major weapon the devil uses to
prevent believers from preaching the gospel. While we
are comfortable to discuss several subjects with
colleagues, friends or neighbours, sharing the gospel becomes
difficult to us. We suddenly become dumb and instantly keep
mute when we have to preach the gospel. The early Apostles
conquered fear first before they could exercise freedom to
share the gospel. Paul testifies that his being in prison had
opened the door of opportunity for others to preach the gospel.
Instead of feeling sorry for himself being in chain, he rejoiced
that the scope of the gospel was being expanded.
Today, the challenge to you is to overcome the fear of
sharing the gospel message to others. There are people you
might have once determined to witness to, but you have
been keeping quiet because of fear. You can go and
exercise your freedom of speech in preaching the gospel by
going in the power of the Lord to declare the gospel
message to them. Fear is of the devil and it brings slavery.
Boldness is of God and it brings freedom. Go and tell the
good news to others now and experience the grace that
follows the Gospel of Christ.
 Birthday Blessing: Now while he was in Jerusalem at
the Passover Festival, many people saw the signs he
was performing and believed in his name. John 2:23
RBT Passage: Exodus 14-16
As we walk to create light for others, we naturally light our
own way  Mary Anne Radmacher
F21
Monday, January 21 Isaiah 52:13-53:9
THE SUFFERING SERVANT
He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows, and
familiar with sufferingand we esteemed him not. Isa 53:3
programme was organized by a highly rated organisation
in Nigeria. Publicity was very high and big people had been
invited. The guest minister was still being awaited after
about half hour to the commencement of the programme when
most invited dignitaries were already seated. When it was
becoming prolonged, they decided to look for alternatives.
However, they were shocked to learn that the guest minister
came earlier in a taxi but was not allowed beyond the gate. They
were expecting somebody who would come in a flashy car with
so much noise. That was the first lesson for the day.
Jesus is the One that introduced the concept of suffering
servant leadership. Prophet Isaiah gives a graphic picture of
who this leader would be and Jesus fulfilled every word of
this prophecy. Jesus, the greatest leader that ever lived gives
us a picture of true and genuine leadership. He became a
suffering servant for the purpose of redeeming humankind. It
is strange in our society today to refer to a leader/boss as a
suffering servant. What we see all around even in the church
today is the picture of pride and display of human ego.
Imagine a campus student fellowship leader who is still very
young takes pride in being addressed as Papa and cannot
even carry his Bible again. Let us sit at the feet of Jesus and
learn the true heart of leadership.
 Birthday Blessing: So that your faith might not rest on
human wisdom but on Gods power. 1 Corinthians 2:5
RBT Passage: Exodus 17-20
Ive seen and met angels wearing the disguise of ordinary
people living ordinary lives  Tracy Chapman
A22
Tuesday, January 22 Psalm 119:65-72
LEARNING GODLY WAYS IN HUMILITY
It was good for me to be afflicted so that I might learn your
decrees Psalm 119:71, NIV
t an ordination programme of a pastor, the ordinant
positively embarrassed an old woman during his
appreciation speech. He asked the woman to stand
up in the congregation. He told the audience that the old
teacher gave him the best discipline while in primary school
30 years ago. According to him, the woman gave him six
strokes of cane for his misdeeds then. That discipline
became a turning point in his life.
The psalmist understands what Gods discipline does
for a penitent heart. It turns out to be a point of strength
and step to growth in lifes race. Those who consider Gods
discipline from a positive perspective grow to become great
and valuable to their generation. The scripture enjoins us to
regard hardship as discipline because God as a good
Father, allows us to pass through this for our good. It is to
make us mature and productive in life and ministry (Heb.
12:5-11). Are you passing through some hard moments
that are shaking you to the root? Can you see God taking
you through this as a training ground for your future
usefulness and productivity? Be humble in the midst of
hardship and trials of life. Hold faithfully to your faith at this
time, and look forward to a glorious future.
 Birthday Blessing: That is why I did not even consider
myself worthy to come to you. But say the word, and my
servant will be healed. Luke 7:7
RBT Passage: Exodus 21-23
Live today the way you want to be remembered tomorrow
 Dillon Burrouhs
A23
Wednesday, January 23 1 Corinthians 15:1-11
MESSAGE OF THE GOOD NEWS
By this gospel you are saved, if you hold firmly to the word
I preached to you. Otherwise, you have believed in vain
1 Corinthians 15:2, NIV
n Islamic cleric was reportedly preaching from the
Bible and pointed out different ways the Bible
authenticate Islam. He read some portions of the Old
Testament on some religious rituals to back up his claim.
Some people believed in his presentation for lack of
understanding of what the Christian faith stands for.
Christian faith is not based on religious activities,
rituals, miracles or human conduct. Our faith stands on the
fact that Jesus died for our sins, he was buried and was
raised on the third day according to the Scriptures  And if
Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile and you are
still in your sins (1Cor. 15:3-4, 17). This is the gospel
message! What type of good news did you receive and
which one are you preaching? Do not be deceived. Our
belief in the finished work of Jesus on the cross and his
resurrection brings us salvation. That is the anchor of our
faith. This looks too simple to the perishing world. For the
message of the cross is foolishness to those who are
perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of
God (1Cor. 1:18). Surrender your life to Jesus, believe in
his sacrifice on the cross; go out and witness this to the
perishing souls.
 Birthday Blessing: The light shines in the darkness
and the darkness has not overcome it. John 1:5
RBT Passage: Exodus 24-27
Be not simply good; be good for something
 Henry David Thoreau
A24
Thursday, January 24 Hebrews 5:1-10
LEARNING OBEDIENCE THROUGH SUFFERING
Son though he was, he learned obedience from what he
suffered. Hebrews 5:8
young man, the only child of his parents, after his
graduation from university said that God has called
him to become a missionary in a remote area. He
couldnt be persuaded to change his mind. Life was tough
in the first five years that he almost lost his life. Everyone
abandoned him but he held on to his faith. Later, some
industries were sited in the area and it became a small
London. The young preacher became very influential and
wealthy and became the breadwinner of his extended
family. His obedience paid off.
Jesus had all authority in heaven and on earth (Matt.
28:18) yet he willingly surrendered himself and suffered for
our salvation. We are expected to have the same mind
with Christ, who made himself nothing by taking the very
nature of a servant, being made in human likeness he
humbled himself by becoming obedient to death  even
death on a cross (Phil. 2:5-8). We have no better example
than Jesus Christ. In our quest to be obedient to Gods
instructions we can face hardship. This does not mean God
has abandoned us. Every faithful biblical character and
celebrated men and women of God passed through trials
and hardship. Whatever situation you find yourself, do not
veer off the path of obedience.
 Birthday Blessing: Tell the righteous it will be well with
them, for they will enjoy the fruit of their deeds.
Isaiah 3:10
RBT Passage: Exodus 28-30
Go extra mile, its never crowded - Anonymous
A25
Friday, January 25 Philippians 2:12-18
SERVE AND WORK FOR GODS PLEASURE
Do everything without grumbling or arguing.
Philippians 2:14
young man graduated from Teachers College and
was posted to a village. He rejected the posting and
sought his brothers help in the Ministry of Education
who insisted on his going to the village. Grudgingly, he went
but hated his brother. However, he became their acting
pastor and everyone loved him. He built a house within two
years. He later appreciated his brother. There are eyeservice Christians in church today who serve for the praise
of people. These are water Christians always looking for
easy service. The Bible admonishes us to serve the Lord
without grumbling and argument. We should be diligent in
service, putting all our efforts to do the best and please God
not people.
As a child of God, your service should make people
know the type of spirit that resides in you. In doing your
assignment, you should shine among them like stars in the
sky (Phil.2:15). Jesus says, Let your light shine before
others, that they may see your good deeds and glorify your
Father in heaven (Matt. 5:16). Work to show the character
of Christ in you.
 Birthday Blessing: When you hear of wars and
rumours of wars, do not be alarmed. Such things must
happen, but the end is still to come.Mark 13: 7
RBT Passage: Exodus 31-34
Be who God meant you to be and you will set the world on
fire St. Catherine of Siena
A26
Saturday, January 26 Philippians 2:19-30
ENVOYS OF MINISTRY IN CHRISTS MISSION
I have no one else like him, who will show genuine
concerns for your welfare. For everyone looks out for their
own interest, not those of Jesus Christ Phil. 2:20-21
any churches established in recent times are for
profit-making, not for the expansion of the gospel.
The vision of some so-called ministers of God is
not about Christ or gospel but about money. The concern of
some church leaders is not the welfare of people but the
benefits they can derive from them. Many people also
attend churches not to encounter Jesus Christ and grow in
Him but for other ulterior motives.
Paul commended the ministries of Timothy and
Epaphroditus in todays passage. While everyone was looking
out for their own interest, Timothy was showing genuine
concern for the peoples welfare and Epaphroditus almost
died for the work of Christ (vv. 20, 30). These were true
messengers of Christ. They did not serve for personal gains
but with total commitment to the cause of the gospel. What
motivates you to serve in your church or fellowship? Have you
abandoned some assignments because you do not derive
personal gains from them? Be a true envoy of Christ. Devote
your life to serve people by thinking about how to meet their
needs instead of your own welfare. Let us learn from our Lord
Jesus, who forsook all to make us to enjoy all.
 Birthday Blessing: He made known to us the mystery
of his will according to his good pleasure, which he
purposed in Christ. Ephesians 1:9
RBT Passage: Exodus 35-37
"What we do for ourselves dies with us. What we do for
others and the world remains and immortal." --Albert Pine
M27
Sunday, January 27 Philippians 2:1-11
YOUR CALL TO UNITY AND HUMILITY
Do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit. Rather,
in humility value others above yourselves Phil. 2:3
recently converted man from cultism became
disappointed when he saw the type of relationship that
existed in a church he attended. According to him, he
would have gone back to his old way of life if not of his strong
conviction in the Lord Jesus. He said he felt more sense of
affection in his old community than the church community.
Cultists sort after the good of their fellow members more
than what obtains in many Christian communities.
A church community that is not expressing sense of
affection for one another needs to check its spiritual state.
The Church was built on the foundation of love: For God so
loved the world (John 3:16). By this shall the world know
you are my disciples if you have love for one another (John
13:35). It is in the atmosphere of love that we can talk of
unity, oneness of spirit, humility, and selfless service.
Todays passage admonishes us not to do anything out of
selfish ambition or vainglory. We are urged to place other
peoples interest above ours. Our spirit must be united with
Christ as we relate with one another (v.5). The closer you
are to Christ, the more humble you will be. When the spirit
of humility resides in you, it will be easy for to have
compassion for others.
 Birthday Blessing: "The Lord is close to the
brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in
spirit." Psalm 34:18
RBT Passage: Exodus 38-40
"I have become all things to all people so that by all
possible means I might save some."  Apostle Paul
A28
Monday, January 28 Romans 2:25-29
A MATTER OF THE HEART
 and circumcision is circumcision of the heart, by Spirit,
not by written code. Such a persons praise is not from
other people, but from God. Romans 2:29, NIV
hristianity is not a religion but living out the life of
God. Religions of this world are usually based on sets
of laws, rules, regulations and codes. People
measure their faithfulness by what they are able to do or
refrain from doing. Judaism (Jewish religion) is based on the
law of circumcision but Jesus came with a lifestyle that is
beyond the law.
The Old Testament circumcision was that of the flesh
but the New Testament circumcision, introduced by Jesus
Christ is of the heart. This is not by obeying a set of rules
but through total surrendering of ones life to the lordship of
Jesus Christ. No one has been able to obey the law by the
circumcision of the flesh. Despite circumcision and religious
rituals, the Jews still struggled to obey the laws of God. It is
the heart circumcision that gives freedom to obey the law
without being coerced. You are not a Christian by the
number of religious rules you obey or roles you perform
because they cannot justify you before God. You can only
please God when you surrender your heart to Jesus Christ
and yield totally to the control of the Holy Spirit. Have you
experienced heart circumcision? You need this to enjoy
intimacy with God.
 Birthday Blessing: Praise be to God and Father of our
Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of compassion and the
God of comfort. 2 Corinthians 1:3
RBT Passage: Leviticus 1-4
If it is to be, it is up to me. Anonymous
C29
Tuesday, January 29 Mark 7:24-30
PERSISTENT FAITH
Lord, she replied, even the dogs under the table eat the
childrens crumbs. Mark 7:28
hree applicants sat at the office reception of an
institution waiting for an interview for a particular juicy
job. A man just called from outside can a servant
come and help me get this box inside? Two of them felt too
big to be called servants but the third went to carry the box.
They were surprised to see the man who was sorting for
help at the head of the table for the interview. He was the
General Manager, who had the power to employ. The
servant eventually got the job.
Some people have lost great opportunities due to ego.
Jesus tested the ego of the Syro-Phoenician woman when
she came to him for assistance over her sick daughter.
Many people would not be able to accommodate such big
insult on their personality and race like the woman did. The
response of this woman pleased Jesus. She got her request
granted immediately. Her daughter was instantly delivered
from demonic possession. Can you examine your life if
pride is depriving you of some benefits of life? What looks
like humiliation to you may be Gods way of teaching you
humility. Is your faith undergoing some kind of test? Ask for
the spirit of God to help you give appropriate response to
the challenge of your life so that you can move to a higher
height.
 Birthday Blessing: Nations will come to your light, and
kings to the brightness of your dawn. Isaiah 60:3
RBT Passage: Leviticus 5-7
"Not a great faith we need, but faith in a great God.
 Hudson Taylor
T30
Wednesday, January 30 2 Corinthians 11:21b-30
PAULS SOLID CREDENTIALS FOR MINISTRY
If I must boast, I will boast of the things that show my
weakness. 2 Corinthians 11:30
ave you ever been where somebody was giving
testimonies of woes that had befallen him and still
show evidence of joy? The testimonies people give in
the church these days are full of personal victories and
prosperity with little relating to challenges of faith. While the
world is boasting of personal achievements and life
attainments, Paul places his boasting on his walk with
Christ. That has led him to face many hardships and threat
to his life, which he counts has evidences and credentials
of his ministry. He rejoices in what he suffered in pursuit of
his ministry as a servant of Christ. This is quite different
from what we consider as evidence of the presence of God.
We often desire victory and a life of affluence. Any
appearance of hardship is considered to be of the devil.
However, we should remember that God works in diverse
ways. He can choose to take us through our own walk of
perfection through our pains our suffering. We should not
only be willing to identify with the goodness of God, we
should also appreciate Him when He is dealing with us in
unpleasant ways. This will strengthen us at such times and
give us the courage to pull through. In all things be
delighted in the power of God that is capable of upholding
you in the face of difficulties.
Birthday Blessing: We know we have come to know him if
we keep his commands. 1 John 2:3
RBT Passage: Leviticus 8-10
The great use of life is to spend it for something that
outlasts it - William James
H31
Thursday, January 31 Philippians 3:1-6
BOAST IN CHRIST JESUS
For it is we who are the circumcision, we who serve God by
his Spirit, who boast in Christ Jesus, and who put no
confidence in the flesh Philippians 3:3
hen a man beats his chest in pride, there is
something he relies on. The Psalmist says, Some
trust in chariots and some in horses but we trust in
the name of the Lord our God (Psalms 20:7). While many
people boast of their sphere of influence because of the
connections they have, Paul, today's text, encourages us to
boast only in Christ. This is because every other connection
may fail but our connection with God can never fail. Even
when we feel we have made landmark achievements,
holding on to those things will still not last. The only
connection that will not fail is God.
Paul had many human achievements he could boast of
but forsook them and held on to Christ. He did not put
confidence in the flesh. He put his entire life on Christ and
was not disappointed. What human flesh can achieve cannot
stand the test of time. Whatever we are in Christ will stand
for eternity. Stop boasting on your intellect, connection,
power, position, influence or wealth. Even when you are
tempted to sort for alternatives, submit everything at the foot
of the cross. God has never disappointed those that put their
trust in Him and He will not disappoint you also. Every other
thing may fail, only the power of God cannot.
 Birthday Blessing: Mercy, peace and love be yours in
abundance. Jude 2
RBT Passage: Leviticus 11-13
You cant build a great building on a weak foundation if youre
going to have a strong superstructure Gordon B. Hinckley
W32
Friday, February 1 Philippians 3:17-4:1
LIVE AS HEAVENLY CITIZENS
 our citizenship is in heaven. And we eagerly await a
Saviour from there, the Lord Jesus Christ. Philippians 3:20
itizens who serve as ambassadors in other nations
represent the interest of their homeland and must
continue to live as citizens of their home countries
even on a foreign soil. Same attitude is expected of
Christians as we are ambassadors of Christ on earth. In
todays text, Apostle Paul alluded to his example of
Christian living, charging the brethren not to live as enemies
of the cross of Christ by becoming worldly. He reminded the
Philippians of the demands of their identity as citizens of
heaven who await the Lord Jesus Christ.
As a Christian, you must live with the consciousness of
your identity in Christ. It doesnt matter how appealing the
patterns of this world are to you, you must always live for
Christ. You must not let material gains rule over you, neither
must you glory in shameful deeds. Remember that you have
a cloud of witnesses around you; the saints gone ahead are
watching how you fight. Besides, at the same point where
you want to compromise and conform to the pattern of this
world, some other believers are standing for Christ. You can
be that believer that will stand out and live as a heavenly
citizen. Do not compromise your identity.
 Birthday Blessing: If you are willing and obedient, you
will eat the good things of the land Isaiah 1:19.
RBT Passage: Leviticus 14-15
I would not give one moment of heaven for all the joy and
riches of the world, even if it lasted for thousands and
thousands of years.  Martin Luther
C33
Saturday, February 2 Philippians 4:2-9
GUARD YOUR HEART AND MIND
And the peace of God, which transcends all
understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in
Christ Jesus. Philippians 4:7
ften at the close of each day, people do routine
security checks, confirming if gates and doors to
houses and rooms are shut before going to bed.
Those who can afford it also engage the services of hired
security officers. But the question is: are people that
concerned about the security of their hearts and minds?
Having addressed the issue of conflict in the church at
Philippi, Apostle Paul instructed the brethren on how their
hearts can be guarded. He charged them to develop
positive attitudes as they use prayer and thanksgiving as
antidotes to anxiety; doing His will allow for the peace of
God to guard their hearts.
As the peace of God guards your heart, you must also
watch your thinking pattern. If you have to run a security
check on your heart now, what kind of things will you find
there? How will you rate the songs you listen to, the films
you watch, the sites you visit on the internet, the gist you
partake in and the things you reflect on? Can they be said
to be things that are true, noble, right, pure, lovely,
admirable, excellent or praiseworthy? You must guard your
heart and mind against pollutions and threats of all sorts.
 Birthday Blessing: your light will break forth like the
dawn, and your healing will quickly appear. Isa 58:8
RBT Passage: Leviticus 16-18
We must guard our minds and our hearts, starting with our
eyes. ? Craig Groeschel
O34
Sunday, February 3 Philippians 3:7-14
BE OF THE SAME MIND
I do not consider myself to have taken hold of it. But one
thing I do: forgetting what is behind and straining towards
what is ahead, I press towards the goal to win the prizein
Christ Jesus. Philippians 3:13-14
n May 1954, Roger Bannister covered a mile in 4
minutes, breaking world record. In June of the same
year, John Landy beat that record by 1.4 seconds. Then
in August, both athletes came for the last lap and Landy
was apparently going to win that race until he lost focus. He
couldnt resist looking back over his shoulder to wonder
about Bannisters position. As he looked back, his pace
dropped and Bannister got to break the tape before him.
Landy later said, I would have won the race if I hadnt
looked back: if I hadnt taken my eyes off the goal.
Todays passage reveals the importance Paul attached
to his walk with God, his desire to know more of God, and
his ever-increasing passion to press on towards the goal of
his calling in Christ Jesus. The Christian life is a journey and
the kind of company you keep can aid or hamper your
journey. Are you surrounded by people like Paul whose
example of Christian living can boost yours? Are you blinded
by the feats of yesteryears that you no longer make
progress today? Dont be like Landy; instead, be like Paul:
forget about what is behind, and strain towards what is
ahead.
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD will guide you always; he
will satisfy your needs in a sun-scorched land... Isa 58:11
RBT Passage: Leviticus 19-21
If there is such a thing as good leadership, it is to give a
good example.  Ingvar Kamprad
I35
Monday, February 4 Matthew 16:13-20
SON OF THE LIVING GOD
Simon Peter answered, You are the Messiah, the Son of
the living God. Matthew 16:16
hile, teaching students how to do literature review,
a lecturer insisted that the student should not stop
at merely parroting what others have said about
the subject matter. Instead, they should go on to engage
the authors and come up with their own opinions about the
subject of discussion. In todays text, Jesus asked His
disciples the all-important question on the subject of His
identity. Like those students, the disciples were quick to
recount others opinion of Jesus identity. But the Master
pushed further. He wanted to know the disciples opinion of
His identity. Peter, of course, had the right answer: he
acknowledged that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of the
Living God.
What is your opinion of Jesus identity? Is He just what
your parents, Sunday School teachers, pastors or worldwide evangelists say He is? Jesus affirmed that God Himself
had revealed the Sons identity to Peter. Having a correct
view of the Son of God attracts blessings such as divine
commissioning, destiny establishment and divine authority.
You need a personal revelation of the Son of God. Rise
beyond what others say of the Lord, seek to know Him
personally so that you can also be a witness of His sonship.
 Birthday Blessing: Do not withhold your mercy from
me, LORD; may your love and faithfulness always
protect me. Psalm 40:11
RBT Passage: Leviticus 22-23
We have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only
Son full of grace and truth. -The Holy Bible
W36
Tuesday, February 5 Ezekiel 39:7-10
I AM THE LORD
I will make known my holy name among my people
Israeland the nations will know that I the LORD am the
Holy One in Israel. Ezekiel 39:7
hidinma became fatherless a month before her
wedding; then, she lost her fianc a week to the set
wedding date. She was so devastated and overwhelmed
by the bouts of tragedy around her but she cried out to the
Lord. Soon after, the Lord comforted her and settled her with a
loving young man who helped her achieve all her goals that
seemed to be going down the drain with the earlier tragedies.
Looking back at her days of tragedy and her current
breakthrough, Chidinma declared that the Lord is indeed good.
Like Chidinma, Israel had been under the affliction of
some nations until God showed Himself mighty as He came
to the rescue of His people. God did this to ensure that His
name was not profaned among the nations. He did this to
declare His holiness and sovereignty among the nations. The
victory was so great that the weapons of their enemies were
to serve as fuel for seven years and the Israelites were to
continue to enjoy the plunders. What troubles and afflictions
are you enduring now? God is willing and able to show up for
you. He will do it for His names sake; He will do it to declare
His holiness and sovereignty before the enemies. You only
need to call on Him to show Himself mighty in your situation.
 Birthday Blessing: the LORD is with me like a mighty
warrior; so my persecutors will stumble and not
prevail... Jeremiah 20:11
RBT Passage: Leviticus 24-25
When you come to the end, that's where God begins.
 Mitch Albom
C37
Wednesday, February 6 1 Peter 2:1-8
GROW INTO A PRECIOUS SPIRITUAL HOUSE
you also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual
house to be a holy priesthood. 1 Peter 2:5
tour round a developing area will reveal stages of
building constructions. While some buildings are on
foundation level some have gone to window level or
even lintel level. While some are just being roofed, others are
being plastered, and some others are undergoing finishing
and furnishing. Some houses may appear more beautiful
than others; but what makes a house really beautiful is how
strong it is. Houses that appear attractive today are so
because the builders built on the right foundation, used the
right materials, kept at their jobs and did not abandon the
building at any level before its completion.
Todays text stresses the need to get rid of unwholesome
materials such as malice, deceit, hypocrisy, envy and slander in
order to keep growing into a precious spiritual house. Instead,
believers are enjoined to crave spiritual milk which is profitable
for proper spiritual growth. It is as you come to Jesus, the living
Stone, the precious Cornerstone, that you are built into a
precious spiritual house. Is your spiritual growth rooted in Christ
Jesus? Are you building your Christian life on the right foundation
and with the correct materials? If you will grow into a precious
spiritual house, your life must not harbour unwholesome
materials such as listed above. Keep growing, dont stop.
 Birthday Blessing: We continually ask God to fill you
with the knowledge of his will through all the wisdom
and understanding Colossians 1:9b
RBT Passage: Leviticus 26-27
Becoming like Christ is a long, slow process of growth.
 Rick Warren
A38
Thursday, February 7 Psalm 93
MAJESTY OF GODS RULE
The LORD reigns, he is robed in majesty; the LORD is
robed in majesty and armed with strength; indeed, the
world is establi7shed, firm and secure. Psalm 93:1
n a Home Economics class, the teacher cited the
example of a traditional ruler whose robes were always
seamless as they were custom-made for him. The royal
father was praised for the splendour of his appearance and
for the expanse of his domain. God is incomparably
awesome in majesty. The psalmist makes it clear that God
is robed in majesty and armed with strength; His domain
transcends the earth and His reign is from eternity. The
seas acknowledge and respond to His majesty, His palace
is beautified with holiness and His rule is not limited to
time.
When nature declares the majesty of God, what are you
doing to acknowledge and sing His praise? You only need
the pay attention to all that God created around you and
then let ceaseless praise flow from your inner being to the
Most High God. Reflect this day on the wonders of creation
and let the mighty deeds of God spur you to deep worship
of God for His majestic rule. Join the composer of Baptist
Hymnal 118 to sing: Majestic sweetness sits enthroned
upon the Saviours brow; His head with radiant glories
crowned, His lips with grace overflow.
 Birthday Blessing: May the LORD cause you to
flourish.... May you be blessed by the LORD, the Maker
of heaven and earth. Psalm 115:14-15
RBT Passage: Numbers 1-2
Happy the soul that has been awed by a view of Gods
majesty.  A. W. Pink
I39
Friday, February 8 Psalm 48:4-8
RULERS ASTOUNDED WITH CITY OF GOD
When the kings joined forces, when they advanced
together, they saw her and were astounded; they fled in
terror. Psalm 48:4-5
Yoruba proverb says one who has not visited another
man's farmland will conclude that his own farm is
largest. So is the experience of the kings and rulers in
todays text. Kings and rulers are known for splendour and
glamour; yet in this passage, kings in their combined
honour and majesty cannot beat the glamour of the City of
God. The rulers are seized with shock, terror and trembling.
They are gripped with pain and destruction at the sight of
the City of God. These are rulers considered supreme in
their domains; yet they are astounded and terrified seeing
the City of God because God is her security.
Are you overwhelmed by the strength of opposition
against you and you feel incapable to face your
adversaries? Then, check your source; check your root in
God. As long as you are connected to God, your security and
victory is sure. Do you feel worthless and de-graded; revisit
your fellowship with God. He is able to beautify your life and
make you a wonder to many. The presence of God in a
persons life is what makes the whole difference. Be
connected always to God and He will beautify you and
confound your adversaries.
 Birthday Blessing: He raises the poor from the ash
heap; he seats them with princes and makes them
inherit a throne of honour. 1 Samuel 2:8-9
RBT Passage: Numbers 3-4
One man called to God is worth a hundred who have elected
to work for God. Oswald Chambers
A40
Saturday, February 9 1 Corinthians 14:26-33a
BUILD UP EACH OTHER IN WORSHIP
When you come together.Everything must be done so
that the church may be built up. 1 Corinthians 14:26
he building process involves the inputs of different
people who perform different roles to ensure the
delivery of a well-constructed house. Imagine if a
bricklayer wants to steal the show without allowing other
workers to play their roles, or an electrician not allowing the
plumber or the painter carry out his role. The product of
such a building process will definitely be defective. Worship,
like the building metaphor, is also enriched by the variety of
roles played by different worship participants.
In this passage, Apostle Paul charged the Corinthian
Christians to promote a variety of roles that culminates in
appropriate building up of the church. He encouraged them
to tow the path of orderliness in their use of spiritual gifts as
God is not a God of disorder. How do you use your spiritual
gifts? Do you see the gifts as an avenue for beefing up your
self-importance or as a means of serving the Lord and
blessing His Church? When God chooses to use another
person to accomplish what you normally do in worship, do
you sit there judging and running the individual down or you
graciously embrace the blessings of God through this other
vessel? Worship roles are not anybodys exclusive right. Seek
to build others up and to be built up in worship.
 Birthday Blessing: I will put my law in their minds and
write it on their hearts, I will be their God, and they will
be my people. Jeremiah 31:33
RBT Passage: Numbers 5-6
No one is useless in this world who lightens the burdens of
another.  Charles Dickens
T41
Sunday, February 10 Psalm 48:1-3, 9-14
PRAISE GODS STEADFAST LOVE IN WORSHIP
Within your temple, O God, we meditate on your unfailing
love. Like your name, O God, your praise reaches to the
ends of the earth; your right hand is filled with
righteousness. Psalm 48:9-10
n Yoruba land, kings courts are characterised with ongoing praise-singing. There are people whose main duty
is to chant the kings praise, tell of the kings exploits and
those of their forebears, and speak of the splendour of their
reign. While these earthly kings can never be compared
with the Sovereign God, the events of praise-singing in their
courts are instructive to believers. Psalm 48 affirms that
God deserves ultimate praise for who He is. His name, the
beauty of His place of abode and His deeds among His
people are all testifying to His greatness.
Pause for a moment and reflect on Gods
awesomeness. Give Him the praise that is due Him for who
He is, for what He is doing in and around you and for what
heaven and earth, as His handiwork, declare about Him. As
you go for worship this morning, meditate on Gods
unfailing love and let praise rise to God from within His
temple. Beyond the praise that you offer God in church, the
physical temple, let your life be the spiritual temple from
which praise arises to the throne of God on a regular basis.
 Birthday Blessing: I will tell of the kindness of the
LORD, the deed for which he is to be praised, according
to all the LORD has done for us. Isaiah 63:7
RBT Passage: Numbers 7
Daily as I live, often as I breathe, let my whole life be
expression of your grace.  Chris Morgan
I42
Monday, February 11 Psalm 56:1-8
IN GOD I TRUST
When I am afraid, I put my trust in you. In God I trust and
am not afraid. What can mere mortals do to me?
Psalm 56:3-4
n the school play-ground, Kunle, a J.S 1 student, felt
uncomfortable and threatened by the bullying acts of
some senior students. He then made a quick
decision to run for safety in the arms of the senior prefect
who was his 'school father'. While in his safe arms, he
looked back at the bullies and watched them as they pant
like toothless dog. Like Kunle, David was bullied by the
Philistines when they seized him in Gath. In this psalm,
David recalled his prayer for mercy and deliverance on
account of the conspiracy of the enemies against him. He
also expressed his confidence in the secured Everlasting
Arms who keep records of his pains and misery.
Are you also encumbered with a load of care, burdened
by conspiracies against you? Then, run to God for
deliverance, safety and succour. Are you threatened by the
devil and his agents? Are you scared of possible attacks
from cultists and drug-addicts on your campus? Are you
under a threat of not graduation because you refused to
compromise your faith? Like David, run to God for safety,
call on Him for mercy and He will show up for you.
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD is my light and my
salvation  whom shall I fear? The LORD is the
stronghold of my life  of whom shall I be afraid
Psalm 27:1-2
RBT Passage: Numbers 8-10
Are you weary, are you heavyhearted Tell it to Jesus
alone.  Jeremiah Eames Rankin
O43
Tuesday, February 12 Luke 18:9-14
GOD LISTENS TO THE HUMBLE
For all those who exalt themselves will be humbled, and
those who humble themselves will be exalted. Luke 18:14
rich girl turned down the marriage proposal of a poor
boy, spiting that his monthly salary was less than
what she spends daily. Ten years later they ran into
each other in a shopping mall and the girl spitefully
announced how much her husband was earning to the boy
who had proposed to her years before. As she ranted on,
her husband came to the scene, greeted the other man
with enthusiasm and introduced him to his wife as his kind
boss who is paying him so much. In shock, the girl could no
longer say a word.
Jesus observed some self-righteous people who were
looking down on others and He told a parable to illustrate
that God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble.
The arrogant Pharisee in the parable declared his selfacclaimed righteousness by comparing himself with a tax
collector. The tax collector on the other hand was begging
God for mercy not minding who was around. Dont look
down on others; dont judge others progress by yours. Like
that rich girl, your show of arrogance is only an indicator of
your un-mastered weakness which will soon run you down if
you do not repent.
 Birthday Blessing: He will guard the feet of his faithful
servants, but the wicked will be silenced in the place of
darkness... 1 Samuel 2:8-9
RBT Passage: Numbers 11-13
There is nothing noble in being superior to your fellow
man; true nobility is being superior to your former self.
-- Ernest Hemingway
A44
Wednesday, February 13 1 Peter 1:3-7
FAITH TESTED BY FIRE
though now for a little while you may have had to suffer
grief in all kinds of trials. These have come so that the
proven genuineness of your faith... 1 Peter 1:6a-7
ough times, Robert H. Schuller says, never last,
but tough people do! This saying summarises the
life and ministry experience of Charles Edwin Smith
who was the only survivor of four American Baptist
missionaries who arrived the shores of Nigeria in 1884. In
addition to the loss of his missionary partners, he also lost
two wives one after the other. One would think he would
abandon the mission field to go and lick his wounds. But he
was resilient. He stayed on and later became the founding
father of a foremost theological institution which has been
training God-called individuals for 120 years now.
Having offered praise to God in this passage, Apostle
Peter acknowledges that the brethren may have had to
suffer grief in all kinds of trials. But he states that the
suffering is only for a while if compared with the praise,
glory and honour that lie ahead. He makes it clear that the
trials are meant to prove the genuineness of their faith.
Dont give up because of the tough times you are passing
through. The hardship is not meant to break you but to
make you and you will come out stronger with your faith
proven beyond every iota of doubt.
 Birthday Blessing: I consider that our present
sufferings are not worth comparing with the glory that
will be revealed in us. Romans 8:18
RBT Passage: Numbers 14-15
Breakdown comes before breakthrough.  Doug Addison
T45
Thursday, February 14 James 5:7-12
THE LORD IS NEAR IN SUFFERING
You too, be patient and stand firm, because the Lords
coming is near. James 5:8
uffering is an unwanted, yet inevitable, part of life.
Often, our favourite song is Me I no go suffer, I no go
beg for bread. Yet, we feel the presence of God
strongly and appreciate His intervention better at the face
of serious challenges and suffering. Alluding to how a
farmer waits patiently for the yield of his farm, Apostle
James admonished the brethren to wait patiently and be
firm having the consciousness that the Lord is near. He
gave instances of prophets who spoke in the name of the
Lord yet were not immune to suffering, calling attention to
how Jobs perseverance ended in glory.
Are you wondering where the face of God is in the
midst of your challenges? Or are you wondering why the
good God will ever allow you to suffer? Note that the Lord is
near you even in your troubles. Like he did for Job and other
saints of old by showing up strong on their behalf, God will
show up for you. God will grant you the grace to endure the
challenges of the moment and come out unhurt and
stronger. Believe in the unchanging power of God and you
will experience His ever-abiding presence.
 Birthday Blessing: God is our refuge and strength, an
ever-present help in trouble. Psalm 46:1
RBT Passage: Numbers 16-18
The darkest night brings the brightest stars.
 James B. Comey
S46
Friday, February 15 Joshua 4:19-24
CROSSING THE JORDAN ON DRY LAND
For the LORD your God dried up the Jordan until you have
crossed over. The LORD your God did to the Jordan what he
had done to the Red Sea. Joshua 4:23
illiam Cowper would have committed suicide but
for Gods intervention. His life was in total disarray
and constant depression that led to mania in some
cases. God used Mary Unwin to care for him. The
unexpected turnarounds in his life made him to write the
hymn God works in a mysterious way... He plants His
footsteps in the sea.
Todays passage records a turnaround: the Israelites
passed through river Jordan on dry land miraculously and
rested at Gilgal. Joshua set up the twelve stones they had
carried from the river as a memorial at Gilgal. He
admonished the people to use the monument to teach their
children what God did for them at Jordan and at the Red
Sea. God wrought the miracle for everyone to know that He
is powerful and for them to fear Him always. Are you in a
hopeless situation like Cowper? Trust God for intervention.
Have you experienced Gods mysterious works? Share the
testimony of His wonders to encourage others. God saved,
helped and delivered you so that you can know Him more
as the all-powerful and faithful God. You should also
reverence Him by keeping His Word. This is the guarantee
for your future breakthrough.
 Birthday Blessing: When you pass through the waters,
I will be with you... Isaiah 43:2a
RBT Passage: Numbers 19-21
A God wise enough to create me and the world is enough
to watch out for me. -- Philip Yancey
W47
Saturday, February 16 Psalm 66:10-15
GODS GRACE FOR HARD TESTING
For you, O God, tested us; you refined us like silverwe
went through fire and water, but you brought us to a place
of abundance  Psalm 66:10, 12
im and Carolyn Murphy in their book An International
Ministers Manual cited a certain minister who had
invested years of his life in the Bible school and
seminary of a denomination. One day, the elders took a
decision to dismiss him, not for any misdemeanour in his
life or ministry; but because he was too Bible centred.
They needed someone a little more flexible. The minister
was thrown into confusion. It was a hard testing, but God
vindicated him.
The psalmist in his thought reckons that it is God who is
behind his trials. He understands that God is the One
refining him by making him pass through fire and water, and
causing men to ride over him. Time of distress is a testing
period, but the psalmist sees God fulfilling His purpose
through all these trials. He does not think God is evil, but
that He makes the testing to fulfil His own purpose. God
makes His grace available in such moments of hard testing.
His grace is the unsolicited divine help through the inner
working of the Holy Spirit in the heart of a person. With the
supernatural grace of God, no testing can knock out a child
of God. Are you passing through your own test? Turn to God
for His unfailing grace and you will be victorious.
 Birthday Blessing: For the Lord God is a sun and shield,
the Lord will give grace and glory Psalm 84:11
RBT Passage: Numbers 22-24
Grace is Gods ability covering up your inability and
disability.  Moses Aransiola
J48
Sunday, February 17 Psalm 66:1-9, 16-20
PRAISE GOD FOR HIS MIGHTY WORKS
Come and see what God has done, how awesome his
works in man behalf." Psalm 66:5
hen Folliot Sandford Pierprint wrote the hymn For
the beauty of the Earth at age 29, he was walking
in the countryside on a beautiful spring day. He
admired the ocean of green, the blue dome of heaven and
The winding Avon River cutting through the Flowery
landscape. He gave expression to the awesome wonderful
works of God so much that every verse of the hymn ended
with a call of praise to God. The psalmist recollects how
God delivered the Israelite at the Red sea, by turning the
sea into dry land for His people to walk through. God rules
over the universe by his power. His eyes are watching the
entire nation of the world and no form of rebellion could
rise up against Him no matter how much humans try.
There were two notable invitations in this passage. The
psalmist invites us to Come and see (v.5) and to come
and listen (v.16). That means Gods mighty works can be
seen and heard by those who fear him. Look around you
today and praise God for the mighty works of preservation,
protection, provision and restoration He is doing in your life.
You are a mighty work in progress. Praise for that God.
 Birthday Blessing: He will not suffer thy feet to be
moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Psalm
121:3
RBT Passage: Numbers 25-26
Earth, with her thousand voices, praises God.- Coleridge
W49
Monday, February 18 Deuteronomy 32:10-14
GOD SUSTAINS AND CARES FOR JACOB
In a desert land he found him, in a barren and howling
waste. He shielded him and cared for him; he guarded him
as the apple of his eye. Deuteronomy 32:10, NIV
he apple of the eye is the aperture in it, which allows
rays of light to fall on the retina where the images of
this are formed. Because it is very delicate, it is
usually protected at all costs. Etymologically, the word apple
used by Moses in describing Gods care for Israel was
translated from the Hebrew word, ishon which means the
little man of the eye. Moses described how God took
extraordinary care of the Israelites in the wilderness, even
when they were undeserving. The wilderness was full of
fiery serpents, scorpions, snakes and wild animals, yet God
protected them.
The psalmist enumerated many ways by which God
took care of them. He found Israel in a barren and howling
waste; He shielded him, cared for him, and guarded him as
the apple of his eye. He also led him, fed him, nourished
him and made him to ride on the heights of the land (vv.
11-13). Each one of Gods children including you is an
apple of His eye. He will always protect you from being hurt
or destroyed. Whatever you are passing through right now,
just remember that God is committed to taking care of you.
You can completely put your trust in Him.
 Birthday Blessing: For this is what the Lord Almighty
says: for whoever touches you touches the apples of
his eyes. Zechariah 2:8
RBT Passage: Numbers 27-29
Keep my commandments and live and my teaching as the
apple of your eye." The Holy Bible
T50
Tuesday, February 19 Psalm 121
TRUST GOD, NO NEED TO FEAR
The Lord shall preserve the from all evil, he shall preserve
the soul." Psalm 121:7
salm 121 is perhaps one of the most popular
passages of the Bible. It has been referred to as the
soldiers or travellers psalm. It is a psalm that
encourages us to put our confidence in God. Rather than
look up for help from the hills or other creature that can
expire or be removed, the Psalmist resolves to look to God
for help. There is no help in heaven or the earth, but in God
alone.
The psalmist believes that when God volunteers to
help, all fears will cease. He enumerates a number of things
God does as One who is greater than the hills and
mountains, with their sheer sizes and contours. He will not
allow our feet to be moved. He gives sure footing so that no
one will slip or fall. God does not slumber or sleep. He is
aware of every detail of your life. Even when it seems like
He does not care, He is still there working things for your
favour. When the devil attacks your faith with fear, reaffirm
your faith in God by mediating on His word and speaking
these words with faith. At the end of it all, you will see the
hand of God in every situation that appears difficult and you
will give glory to Him.
 Birthday Blessing: For the Lord God will help you,
therefore shall you not be confounded... Isaiah 50:7
RBT Passage: Numbers 30-32
"You may trust the Lord for little, but you can never trust
Him too much." Anonymous
P51
Wednesday, February 20 Isaiah 4:8-13
THE LORD WILL HELP YOU
Do not be afraidfor I myself will help you, declares the
Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. Isaiah 4:14
he phrase God is a Nigerian  was on the lips of every
Nigerian, even non soccer enthusiasts following the
brilliant performance of the U23 team during the 1996
Olympic Games in Atlanta. The Argentines were leading 2-1
by the 74th minute of the finals. The whole world had
concluded that the game was over. Even spectators walked
out of the stadium in Georgia, concluding that the
indomitable Argentines would win the cup. But then, the tide
changed, thanks to the last minute goals by Daniel Amokachi
and Emmanuel Ammunike that brought the score line to 3-2
in favour of the unsung Nigeria players. We, in Nigeria,
believed God helped our U23 team to defeat the dreaded
soccer nation- Argentina.
God repeatedly urged his people not to be afraid or
dismayed in this passage. About three times, God insisted
that He would personally help Little Israel. He referred to
Israel as a worm, helpless, weak and very vulnerable to
being destroyed but promised to act and help Israel against
all odds because He had not forgotten his covenant with
Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. That covenant, renewed and
rebranded is extended to us as believers in Jesus Christ.
Even at the eleventh hour, God will help you and will never
allow you to be ashamed. Trust in Him.
 Birthday Blessing: Make us glad according to the days
wherein thou hast afflicted us, and the years wherein
we have seen evil. Psalm 90:15
RBT Passage: Numbers 33-36
Come near to God. He is your friend. - Bunjiro
T52
Thursday, February 21 Nahum 1:2-8
GOD OVERPOWERS ADVERSARIES
The Lord is a jealous and avenging GodThe Lord takes
vengeance in his foes and maintains his wrath against his
enemies. Nahum 1:2
e may want to be curious about knowing who is
Gods enemy? God is no enemy to anyone simply
because He created everyone and desires to relate
lovingly with all his creatures. However, human beings decided
to turn themselves to Gods enemies by rejecting him and his
ways. As Nahum declares Gods intention for His enemies in
his prophecy, one is apt to ask Is God not overbearing? The
answer a resounding No! He created everyone and is entitled
to exercise His authority over what He created.
As every inventor has complete patent over his
invention, so does God over His creation. However, when
God acts, He is just in His judgment toward all who oppose
Him and His kingdom. Therefore, He is to be feared by His
enemies because of four reasons: (1) He is a jealous God.
(2) He takes revenge on His enemies. (3) He is full of wrath
when His enemies become unrepentantly stubborn (4) He
does not forget His anger at His enemies. In other words, no
matter how long it takes, Gods anger will come upon His
enemies. Be a friend of God because His  mercy is better
than life (itself) (Psalm 63:3 GW). Reconcile with Him so you
can continue to enjoy His constant love.
 Birthday Blessing: For the Lord God is a sun and
shield, the Lord will give grace and glory... Ps. 84:11.
RBT Passage: Deuteronomy 1-2
You may juggle human laws, you may fool with human
courts, but there is a judgment to come, and from it there is
no appeal. - Gifford
W53
Friday, February 22 John 17:11-15
GODS PROTECTION THROUGH ONENESS
Holy Father, protect them by the power of your nameso
that they may be one as we are one. John 17:11
t's often been said that it is easier to kill one snake that
is moving alone than to confront a group of about 10
snakes moving together. That demonstrates the power of
unity or oneness. After praying for Himself extensively,
Jesus prayed for His disciples, focusing on two main issues:
the protection and sanctification of the disciples. Jesus
identified the source of their protection which is the power
of the Father, Holy Father, protect them by the power of
your name (v.11). He further stated the goal of the
protection, so that they may be one as we are one
(17:11b). The goal of protecting believers is for their unity.
Jesus desired that His followers will be one in purpose, goal
and direction just as He is with the Father.
Furthermore, the nature of the protection is not removal
from the world, but victory over the world. Many times, God
does not prevent challenges or remove his children from
difficult circumstances, rather, His protection do come to us
in form of grace to endure and ability to overcome. Because
followers of Jesus would certainly come under attack of
Satan and his cohorts, He prayed earnestly for our protection,
especially when we are united. Endeavour to maintain the
unity of Spirit in your church or fellowship.
 Birthday Blessing: For I will give you words and wisdom
that come of your adversaries will be able to resist or
contract. Luke 21:15.
RBT Passage: Deuteronomy 3-4
Help thy brothers boat across, and lo! Thine own has
reached the shore.  Anonymous
I54
Saturday, February 23 Psalm 140:1-8
DELIVERANCE FROM VIOLENT PEOPLE
Rescue me, LORD, from evildoer; protect me from the
violent who devise evil plans in their hearts and stir up war
everyday. Psalm 140:1-2
he genocide attack of Adolf Hitler against the Jews is one
of the most violent and cruel events of the 20th century.
Though millions were killed in the holocaust, God
eventually rescued the Jews from the Nazis. The nation of
Israel still exists and remains strong today in spite of similar
attacks. The violent, according to David in this passage, are
evildoers and wicked people who plan evil and wage war daily.
He cried to God for His mercy to rescue him, protect him and
keep him safe. This is because he has experiential knowledge
of Him as Sovereign LORD, my God, my deliverer who will not
allow the desires and plans of the wicked to succeed. Though
they spit poison as vipers and set snares and traps for him,
God will be his shield and strong deliverer.
Are you passing through turbulent times stirred up by a
difficult lecturer, supervisor, boss or political leader? You
need to examine yourself, confess and forsake your sins;
then ask for Gods mercy and intervention. He is the God of
all flesh; with Him nothing is impossible. He will truncate
their wicked schemes. Seek to know more of God through
daily study and meditation in His Word so that you can
understand the victory that Christ has won for your sake.
 Birthday Blessing: I will save you from the hands of the
wicked and deliver you from the grasp of the cruel
Jeremiah 15:21
RBT Passage: Deuteronomy 5-8
The violent winds of suffering and trouble blow us into the
Lords protective hands. Sadhu Sundar Singh
T55
Sunday, February 24 Psalm 91:1-8, 11-16
ASSURANCE OF GODS PROTECTION
Because he loves me, says the LORD, I will rescue him; I
will protect him; I will protect him, for he acknowledges my
name. Psalm 91:14
Nigerian gospel minister once shared a testimony of his
experience during an impending airplane crash. While
everyone was panicking, he was calm because he was
sure that God is in charge and would protect him. You too can
have such confidence. The psalmist chronicles the benefits
that those who dwell in the shelter of the Most High God; who
know and trust Him personally as their refuge and fortress, will
enjoy. These include deliverance from deadly pestilence, terror
of the night, arrows of the day and plagues of the midday. The
angels will guard them and keep them from stumbling. God
also promised to rescue and protect those that love Him
assuring them of long life and prosperity.
You can also be sure of Gods unfailing protection in all
aspects of your life. The condition is to dwell in His presence
daily through personal meditations and prayers as well as
fellowship with Gods children. You need to know God personally
and love Him genuinely - not serving Him for what you want to
get from Him but for who He is. When you live according to His
will, these promises of Gods guidance, protection from sickness,
death and all evils will become real and active.
 Birthday Blessing: What, then, shall we say in
response to these things? If God is for us, who can be
against us? Romans 8:31
RBT Passage: Deuteronomy 9-11
The very gates of hell cannot make us stumble unless we
choose to remove ourselves from His protection and
power. Larry Libby
A56
Monday, February 25 Proverbs 25:2-7a
WAIT TO ENTER THE KINGS PRESENCE
Do not exalt yourself in the kings presence, and do not
claim a place among great men Proverbs 25:6-7a
any people want to be in great position. Some of them
do not understand that the heights that great men
attained were not reached in a night but while their
colleagues were sleeping, they continued to toil all through the
night. Patience and diligence have helped many people to
move from the least to the highest position in a company. Some
professors of today who began their education from an unknown
village can now rob minds with global scholars.
Todays passage also affirms simplicity, patience and
humility as virtues of great men, those who can stand before
kings. The arrogant and wicked people are like dross that
needs to be removed from the silver of leadership so that the
throne can be established in righteousness. Kings are
endowed by God to search out a matter, they prefer to
identify potentials of greatness in people and invite them
instead of those that exalt themselves to claim a place
among great men. You need to wait patiently for your season
of manifestation while you continually work diligently. Your
gifts will make room for you. God exalts the humble but
brings down the arrogant. Do not let your academic prowess
get into your heads, embrace simplicity and integrity. Resist
get-rich quick syndrome and trust in God at all times.
 Birthday Blessing: Do you see someone skilled in their
work? They will serve before kings; they will not serve
before officials of low rank Prov. 20:29
RBT Passage: Deuteronomy 12-15
"My chief duty is to accomplish small tasks as if they were
great and noble Helen Keller
M57
Tuesday, February 26 James 2:1-7
TREAT THE POOR AND RICH IMPARTIALLY
My brothers, as believers in our glorious Lord Jesus Christ,
dont show favouritism. James 2:1
iscrimination is the bedrock of most of the disasters in
our world today. Philip Yancey asserts that whatever
makes us feel superior to other people, whatever
tempts us to convey a sense of superiority, that is the gravity of
our sinful nature, not grace. In todays passage, believers are
encouraged to avoid favouritism in their attitude and
relationship with the rich and the poor. Giving attention and
good seat to a rich man with fine clothes while neglecting the
less privileged ones amounts to judging with evil thoughts.
While someone may be poor by this worlds standard,
he is rich in faith if he/she is a child of God. In this world of
materialism, you need to have a correct value of people. It
is not wealth, academic status or position that makes a
person. Everyone should be respected as Gods image
whose status can improve or diminish later. Someone you
despise today may be of help to you tomorrow. You should
therefore honour believers as fellow brethren regardless of
their wealth or status. Showing favouritism is an ungodly
act, it amounts to injustice and hatred. Be just and fair to
people whether you know them before or not.
 Birthday Blessing: The race is not to the swift or the
battle to the strong, nor does food come to the wise or
wealth to the brilliant or favour to the learned Eccl
9:11
RBT Passage: Deuteronomy 16-19
In the time we have, it is surely our duty to do all the good
we can to all the people we can in all the ways we can
William Barclay
D58
Wednesday, February 27 Matthew 5:43-48
LOVE AND PRAY FOR THE PERSECUTOR
... I tell you, love your enemies and pray for those who
persecute you. Matthew 5:44
artin Luther King Jr., the great American civil rights
leader said Love is the only force capable of
transforming an enemy into a friend. He chose to
forgive his oppressors who imprisoned and threatened him
with death, bombed his house and jailed him 20 times. He
said hate multiplies hate...in a descending spiral of violence
and it is just as injurious to the person who hates.Jesus
admonished His disciples to love their enemies and pray for
their persecutors. He reiterated that children of God should live
above one good turn deserves another principle because
sinners also love and do well to their own people. Hence, for
children of God to be perfect as their heavenly Father, they
must express agape love  loving their good neighbours as
well as their enemies. They should imitate God who sends rain
and sun on both good and evil people.
In this end time when death has become a common wish for
supposed enemies, you need to remember this kingdom principle
of love. Rather than hate those who persecute you, conquer their
evil with acts of love rooted in forgiveness. Hating fellow human
beings amounts to despising them as Gods creation; rather
choose to pray for their repentance and see what God can make
out of their lives. He is still in the business of turning lives around.
 Birthday Blessing: after you have suffered a little
while, will himself restore you and make you strong,
firm and steadfast. I Peter 5:10
RBT Passage: Deuteronomy 20-22
Nothing breaks down barriersmore than when we treat
people the way Jesus treated His enemies. Chip Ingram
M59
Thursday, February 28 Ephesians 4:1-7
A LIFE WORTHY OF GODS CALL
As a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to live a life
worthy of the calling you have received. Ephesians 4:1
n educated Christian gentleman demonstrated his faith
in a newly launched European airline. The air hostess
brought him a complimentary drink three times; he
refused and politely responded that he does not drink alcohol.
When the airline manager also persuaded him, he simply asked
if the pilot can take the drink. The manager replied that he
cannot because he is on duty. The gentleman also said I am
always on duty in order to protect my faith... I am 100% on duty.
The admonition of Paul to Gods people at Ephesus
emphasises the importance of living a life worthy of our calling
as Gods children. He describes the worthy life as one that is
completely humble, gentle and patient, tolerant, united with
the Holy Spirit and at peace with people. Though every
Christian has different measures of grace, our lives should
reflect genuine repentance, signifying one baptism, Christlikeness of the one Lord, holiness of the one God and Father of
all, and readiness for Christs coming, our only hope. Are these
virtues evident in your life? It is pathetic to see many professed
Christians compromising their faith, indulging in secret sins,
not being on 100% duty for Christ. Let others in your home,
school and workplace see Jesus in you.
 Birthday Blessing: But you will be called Hephzibah,
and your land Beulah; for the Lord will take delight in
you, and your land will be married Isaiah 62:4
RBT Passage: Deuteronomy 23-25
"Questions of how to conduct oneself as a Christian must
be answered by life itself- the life of the individual in his
direct relationship to God. Elisabeth Elliot
A60
Friday, March 1 Luke 14:1-6
SERVING WITH LOVE ON THE SABBATH
Then he asked them, If one of you has a son or an ox that
falls into a well on the Sabbath day, will you not
immediately pull him out? Luke 14:5, NIV
erry Bridges said, Only when we're thoroughly
convinced that the Christian life is entirely of grace, are
we able to serve God out of a grateful and loving heart.
The lawyers and Pharisees in todays passage lacked this
loving heart. Though they claimed to love God, by upholding
the Sabbath, they lacked the compassion that comes with
the love of God. To them, it does not matter what pain that
man was going through, once their legalistic rules were
upheld. Jesus revealed their hypocrisy by asking them that
if their son or ox fell into a pit on the Sabbath, wont they
pull it out? Jesus cannot be indifferent to human suffering;
He healed the man with dropsy, and proved that love is
what fulfils the law. By this act, Jesus opened the way to
loving grace which was to replace the era of legalism that
put unnecessary burden on people.
We cannot afford to be apathetic towards the needs
around us. We are Jesus hands today to set people free
from the burden of sin and shame which traps those who
are yet to experience His grace. Serving God could be seen
as an obligation, but the best service  the one that pleases
God  is one borne out of the love of God, extended to
those who are in need.
 Birthday Blessing: For I know the plans I have for you,
plans to give you hope and a future. Jeremiah 29:11
RBT Passage: Deuteronomy 26-27
The only way you can serve God is by serving other people.
Rick Warren
J61
Saturday, March 2 Luke 14:15-24
SNUBBING THE KINGS INVITATION
But they all alike began to make excuses.... Luke 14:18
ictor Kuglins book Snubbing God describes the
confusion that abounds in a world bent on rejecting
Gods order of things and fixated on doing things its
own way. Kuglin believes that to live a rich and satisfying life,
we must be willing to live according to Gods design. Jesus
story of the great feast brings home the consequences of
snubbing God. The guests had all agreed to attend the feast,
but none showed up eventually. Though their excuses seem
legitimate, it was to their loss that they chose those things
over dining with the host. Rejecting the invitation this way
was considered an insult to the host. The host later sent his
servants to go into the streets and invite the rejected of the
society  those who would not be invited normally.
The invitation to dine with God is extended to us each
day, but arent we too busy to have time for Him? Too-busy
is a syndrome of the modern world that makes many
jettison fellowship with God. Perhaps because we thought
we were created to hop from one activity to the other, filling
up our lives with so much movement but little progress.
When our busyness gets in the way of quality relationship
with God, we are on our way to burning out and being sick
in our spirit. Pastor Rick Warren says, If you are too busy to
have time for God, then you are [really] too busy.
 Birthday Blessing: I will instruct you and teach you in
the way you should go; I will counsel you and watch
over you. Psalm 32:8
RBT Passage: Deuteronomy 28-29
If you are too busy to have time for God, then you are too
busy. -- Rick Warren
V62
Sunday, March 3 Luke 14:7-14
HUMILITY  THE WAY UP
For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he
who humbles himself will be exalted. Luke 14:11, NIV
uman management experts say every human being
wears an invisible tag that reads, Please make me feel
important and that to get someone to be favourably
disposed to you, you must heed this sign. When we ignore this
sign, people become resentful and angry. This shows that
everyone loves to be noticed and treated as important. This
need to feel important was what made the people of Jesus
days choose exalted seats at occasions. Seat became a status
symbol and everyone wanted to show how important they were
by sitting on choice seats. Jesus responded to this attitude with
a parable. Contrary to what the people thought, Jesus
instructed that one who is invited to an event should not seek
a special seat. This is a lesson in humility.
Against the belief that feeling important requires
asserting oneself and seeking high status, Jesus is telling
us that the way to get ahead is to take the place of less
honour and status. The way up is down, and those who
would be exalted are those who do not think too much of
themselves. Apostle Paul enjoins us, Don't be selfish; don't
try to impress others. Be humble, thinking of others as
better than yourselves. Don't look out only for your own
interests, but take an interest in others, too (Phil 2:3-4).
 Birthday Blessing: You will arise and have compassion
on Zion, for it is time to show favour to her; the
appointed time has come- Psalm 102:13.
RBT Passage: Deuteronomy 30-32
Humility is not thinking less of yourself, it's thinking of
yourself less. -- C. S. Lewis
H63
Monday, March 4 Mark 4:10-20
VARYING RESPONSES TO THE WORD
Others, like seed sown on good soil, hear the word, accept
it, and produce a crop  thirty, sixty or even a hundred
times what was sown. Mark 4:20, NIV
griculturists affirm that one of the factors that contribute
to a sustainable harvest is the quality of the soil. A soil
that is too alkaline or too acidic will make the plant sick
and hinder fruitfulness. Jesus parable touches on four types of
soil heart  which received the seed of Gods Word. The seed
that fell by the way side could not take root at all because
Satan came and took it away. The stony heart initially received
the word with gladness but got offended at the word when
persecution arose because the word has not gained root
within. The word sown among thorns has the propensity to
grow and blossom but it was choked up by the thorns.
The cares of this world, quest for riches and pleasure
are thorns which overpower the seed of the Word in our
hearts. Jesus then recommends that the kind of heart that
will sustain Gods Word to maturity and fruitfulness is that
which is free of clutters just as a soil of good quality will aid
a plants growth. Apostle Paul enjoins us: Let the Word of
Christ  the Message  have the run of the house. Give it
plenty of room in your lives (Col 3:16). What clutters do you
need to get rid of to make space for the Word of God to find
root and bring multiple fruits in your life?
 Birthday Blessing:  I will take away sickness from
among you, and none will miscarry or be barren in your
land. I will give you a full life span. Exodus 23:26
RBT Passage: Deuteronomy 33-34
"We cannot bear fruit without the water of Gods Word."
--Anonymous
A64
Tuesday, March 5 Mark 10:23-31
ENTERING THE KINGDOM
..how hard it is for those who trust in riches to enter the
kingdom of God. Mark 10:24, NKJV
. L. Moody said, If you dont enter the kingdom of
heaven by Gods way, you cannot enter at all. Jesus
had just finished chatting with the rich young ruler
who wished to become a member of Gods kingdom but
cannot abide by Jesus standard of admission. Turning to
His disciples, Jesus stated that it will be hard for those who
trust in riches to enter the kingdom of God (v. 24). Jesus
stated the truth that those who have made an idol of riches
and are consumed by a strange appetite for more are far
from the kingdom and cannot enter it.
At the wake of Hurricane Harvey, the flood that
wrecked many homes and properties across its path, Max
Lucado said as he listened to survivors, he noticed that no
one laments a lost plasma television or submerged SUV. No
one runs through the streets yelling, My cordless drill is
missing or My golf clubs have washed away. If they
mourn, it is for people lost. If they rejoice, it is for people
found. This is a reminder that your soul matters more than
possessions. And your priority is not right if you have
neglected preparing your soul for Gods kingdom to pursue
fleeting riches. Jesus said, Watch out! Be on your guard
against all kinds of greed; a mans life does not consist in
the abundance of possessions. Luke 12:15
 Birthday Blessing: Your beginning may seem humble,
so prosperous will your future be. Job 8:7
RBT Passage: Joshua 1-4
The value of your soul is measured by its eternal quality.
--Billy Graham
D65
Wednesday, March 6 Matthew 10:34-39
CHOOSING BETWEEN CHRIST AND FAMILY
Anyone who loves his father or mother...his son or daughter
more than me is not worthy of me. Matthew 10:37, NIV
abeel Qureshi grew up knowing the love and honour
of family. She had the right environment to grow
healthy and strong as a devout Muslim. In his search
for the truth about Allah, Nabeel found Jesus Christ, and
this discovery brought him face-to-face with the reality that
choosing Christ would mean losing the people he loved
most in life. Accepting this reality was not easy, but the grip
of this truth would not let him go. As he chronicled in his
autobiography, Seeking AllahFinding Jesus, being
excommunicated from his loved ones and having no family
at his wedding was agonising for him, but in it all, he said,
All suffering is worth it to follow Jesus. He is that amazing.
Every one of us would have to sacrifice one thing or the
other to follow Jesus. This is what Jesus underscored when
He stated that He had not come to send peace on earth but
a sword. Anyone who loves family more than Jesus is not
worthy of Him. Taking up our cross, willing to let go of
whatever competes with Christ in our lives is the sacrifice
we have to pay to gain all in the end. When the expectation
of your loved ones contradicts the plan of God for your life,
what would you do?
 Birthday Blessing: I will instruct you and teach you in
the way you should go; I will counsel you and watch
over you. Psalm 32:8
RBT Passage: Joshua 5-7
"When situations arise and we have to choose between God
or family members, theres really no choice. Our greatest
love and commitment has to be to Christ."  Scott LaPierre
N66
Thursday, March 7 John 12:20-26
THE FATHER HONOURS THOSE WHO FOLLOW
Whoever serves me must follow me; and where I am, my
servant also will be. My Father will honor the one who
serves me. John 12:26
ollowing is a familiar terminology to those who use the
social media. To follow someone on Facebook,
Instagram or Twitter means to be interested in seeing
their posts and content feed. But then you have to
cautiously choose who to follow because following someone
means you have access to all of their posts, whether
healthy or toxic. And in case you change your mind about
following someone, another click at the follow button will
make you unfollow them and then stop seeing their posts
on the platform.
But following Jesus is not something we do at our whims
and undo anytime we feel like it. It is a thoughtful action that
follows a conscious decision to serve Him at all times. Some
Greeks came asking to see Jesus. And Jesus used the
opportunity to tell a spiritual truth: that a seed that will bring
forth fruit must first die and that those who will save their
lives are those who are ready to lose it for the sake of Gods
kingdom. Following Jesus brings honour but those who will
receive this honour are those who are willing to die to self so
they can be alive in Christ. To follow Jesus means to yield
ourselves to Him, allowing Him to mould us to His own taste.
That is the secret to becoming honourable.
 Birthday Blessing: There is no sorcery against Jacob,
no divination against Israel Numbers 23:23a.
RBT Passage: Joshua 8-10
"To follow Jesus means to take up His dream and work for
it." Anonymous
F67
Friday, March 8 Philippians 3:7-16
SUFFERING AND KNOWING CHRIST
I want to know Christ and the power of his resurrection
and the fellowship of sharing in his sufferings, becoming
like him in his death. Philippians 3:10, NIV
n closing his autobiography, Seeking Allah-Finding Jesus,
Nabeel Qureshi wrote: I wish to appeal to those who are
considering following Jesus, especially those who will sacrifice
much by doing so. I will honestly say that my first year as a
Christian was unimaginably difficult, without a doubt the most
painful period of my life. Each and every day...I experienced
depths of emotional pain I did not know possible. But...looking
back on it eight years later; it was the most powerful time of my
life. It shaped me, moulded me, changed me into a disciple of
Jesus. The Holy Spirit was my comforter, His word was my
sustenance, and I would not give up that time for anything.
Apostle Paul underscores the inevitability of suffering for
those who want to gain Christ (v. 8). Paul states, without
mincing words, that knowing Christ includes knowing His
power of resurrection and the fellowship of His suffering (v.
10). The recipe has not changed for those who are willing to
follow Christ today. Enduring hardship for Christs sake helps
us to know God better. His sustaining grace that we experience
in times of difficulty draws us closer to Him. We find God to be
true to what He says and after we have overcome, we can offer
real help to those who are experiencing same.
 Birthday Blessing: Anyone who trusts in him will never
be put to shame. Romans 10:11
RBT Passage: Joshua 11-13
"I love when people that have been through hell walk out of
the flames carrying buckets of water for those still
consumed by the fire." Stephanie Sparkles
I68
Saturday, March 9 2 Corinthians 6:1-10
FAITHFUL WITNESS THROUGH SUFFERING
...But in all things approving ourselves as the ministers of
God, in much patience, in afflictions, in necessities, in
distresses. 2 Corinthians 6:4, KJV
andels Halleluyah Chorus, composed many decades
ago, is perhaps the most sung Christian piece in the
world today. But is it not amazing to know that when
Handel wrote Halleluyah Chorus, his health and fortunes had
reached an all-time low? His right side had become paralysed.
He was heavily in debt and threatened with imprisonment. He
was tempted to give up the fight. The odds seemed entirely too
great. And it was then he composed his greatest workMessiah.
Paul shares his personal struggle with suffering as a
minister of the gospel. But in spite of his pains  troubles,
hardships, distresses; beatings, imprisonments, riots, hard work,
sleepless nights and hunger (vv. 4-5)  Paul affirmed that the
standards of purity, understanding, patience, kindness, sincere
love, truthful speech were not compromised (vv. 6-7). Most of all,
Paul stated that even when he was sorrowful, he became a
source of joy to others (v.10). Many of us forgo godly standards
when times are hard and tell ourselves that if only our
circumstances could change, then we would act right. But God
wants us to live rightly even in terrible circumstances. When you
find yourself amidst harsh or hostile people, you can still be a
witness for Christ. Christs life gave a perfect example that even
in our sufferings, Gods glory can be made known to others.
 Birthday Blessing: You will arise and have compassion
on Zion, for it is time to show favour to her Ps 102:13
RBT Passage: Joshua 14-17
"Even in the greatest afflictions, you can be a testimony of
Gods greatness." XB
H69
Sunday, March 10 Mark 1:16-20; Luke 14:25-33
COUNTING THE COST, ANSWERING THE CALL
Suppose one of you wants to build a tower. Will he not first
sit down and estimate the cost to see if he has enough
money to complete it? Luke 14:28, NIV
he first question on the theory part of the Mathematics
exam looked very familiar to Andre. Their teacher had
solved it with them before. Andre quickly did it. But he did
not see that one of the figures was 10-06; he mistook it for 1006.
This gave him a different final answer. When the marked answer
scripts were released, Andre could not believe he missed it. But
then his teacher pointed to him that it was 10-06, not 1006.
Mistakes can be costly and that is why Jesus warns that
the decision to follow Him must not be a mistake or a
miscalculation. He states the extreme commitment we must
have if we are willing to follow Him. First, following Him
requires loving Him above all things, even our lives. Second,
following Him requires carrying a cross. This means giving up
all that we have and embracing Christ completely. For the
greater value of becoming fishers of men, Peter and others left
their fishing business to follow Jesus completely. They must
have counted the cost of their decision. Perhaps the greatest
cost we have to pay in following Christ is in forsaking self
selfish ambitions, pursuit of personal glory  to pursue Christ
and His glory alone. And experience has shown that those who
leave all to follow Christ never regret it. Instead, in Christ, they
become greater than they could ever be without Him.
 Birthday Blessing: But I will see you again and you will
rejoice and no-one will take away your joy. John 16:22
RBT Passage: Joshua 18-20
"Being one of Jesus disciples isntfor the I dont want
you to stretch me types." Rick Howerton
T70
Monday, March 11 Ephesians 2:1-10
TRANSFORMED BY CHRIST INTO NEW LIFE
And you He made alive, who were dead in trespasses and
sins. Ephesians 2:1, NKJV
romotional ads for self-improvement products like
diet, exercise or beauty programmes often use
before-and-after pictures to prove their effectiveness.
It is often amazing to see the great change that has taken
place, considering the picture of the people before and
after undergoing the prescribed regimen.
Apostle Paul also paints a before-and-after picture of
believers in Christ. Before we met Christ, we were dead in
trespasses and sins, but in Christ, were quickened into
righteousness (v. 1, 5). Before Christ came into our lives, we
walked in disobedience, according to the course of this world
(v.2), but in Christ all of that changed. We were not only
raised to life; we were made to sit together with Christ in
heavenly places. All of this took place, not by any effort of
ours, but by the grace of God (vv. 8-9). Yet Paul cautioned
that this grace is not for fun; we were given grace so that we
might do good works which God had prepared for us to do
(v.10). Can you try painting a before-and-after picture of your
own life in Christ? What glaring transformation can you see?
And in what areas do you need to trust Christs ability more,
so He could transform you into His own model for your life?
 Birthday Blessing: You will arise and show compassion
on Zion, for it is time to show favour to her. Ps 102:13
RBT Passage: Joshua 21-22
Holiness consists of three things - separation from sin,
dedication to God, transformation into Christ's image. You
cant talk about the last, unless you have experienced the
first.  James Aughey
P71
Tuesday, March 12 Ezekiel 34:11-16
GOD SEEKS THE SCATTERED PEOPLE
For thus says the Lord God: Indeed I Myself will search for
My sheep and seek them out. Ezekiel 34:11-12, NKJV
ou may have heard of Shrek, a renegade sheep that ran
away to avoid being shorn. It lived in a cave for six years,
while its owner kept looking for it. When Shrek was
eventually found in 2004, it looked nothing like a sheep. The
wool had covered him up; it was weighed down by the
enormous wool that it could barely walk. Its eyes were covered
up by the overgrown wool and its life was endangered by the
terrible infection that festered under the wool.
Shreks lost-but-found story reminds us of how God
seeks His people who were in exile, downcast and without
hope. God gave Ezekiel a message of hope for them.
Though their situation was terrible, God has not forgotten
them. He promised to bring them back to their own land,
feed them with good pasture and cause them to lie down.
He will bind their wounds and strengthen those that are
sick. Perhaps your present situation makes you feel
abandoned. Or you have strayed from Gods presence and
weighed down by the guilt of your many transgressions. Like
Shrek, you may have lost all that identify you as Gods child
and you think your situation is beyond remedy. Gods
message of hope comes to you today. He is seeking to
restore you to Himself. He wants to help you shed your
burden of guilt and carry you in His arms. Will you let Him?
 Birthday Blessing: The Sovereign LORD will wipe away
the tears from all faces... Isaiah 25:8
RBT Passage: Joshua 23-24
"God goes to great effort to seek lost sinners and He greatly
rejoices when they come to repentance." Steven Cole
Y72
Wednesday, March 13 Hosea 11:1-4, 8-9
GODS COMPASSION FOR STRAYING PEOPLE
How can I give you up, Ephraim...My heart is changed
within me; all my compassion is aroused. Hosea 11:8, NIV
indas heart was grieved as her son was brought into
the principals office, having been involved in a gang
rape and was to be expelled from school. This was the
third school in a row where she would have to face the
shame of her sons misdemeanour. She looked at him, with
tears streaming down her face. She remembered how she
taught him to walk as a toddler; his innocence as he grew
up, always asking her questions. But he seemed to have
lost that tenderness and has grown so wild from strange
influences.
Lindas grief is a far-cry from what God felt about His
beloved Israel whom he loved so much. God demonstrated
His love in raising someone to bring Israel out of the
oppression of Egypt. But instead of reciprocating Gods
love, Israel grieved His heart by turning to graven images.
But Gods love for Israel remains and He will not give His
people up for anything (v. 8). No one is beyond Gods offer
of forgiveness and theres no sin so grave that God cannot
forgive. We only need to be willing to return to our Father
just like the prodigal son. Perhaps you are afraid that you
have strayed too far and beyond the reach of Gods mercy.
Even right now, His arms are open wide, ready to receive
the penitent sinner. Are you willing to be restored to your
Father?
 Birthday Blessing: My people will live in peaceful
dwelling-places, in secure homes. Isaiah 32:18
RBT Passage: Judges 1-3
"Gods mercy is fresh and new every morning."Joyce Meyer
L73
Thursday, March 14 Luke 3:12-13; 5:27-32
CALLING SINNERS TO REPENTANCE
I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to
repentance. Luke 5:32, NIV
n his book, Whats So Amazing about Grace, Philip
Yancey told about a wretched, homeless, sick prostitute
who came to him. She was not only a prostitute; she also
rented out her daughter to men for sex in order to get
money to support her own drug habit. Hearing the sordid
story, Philip Yancey felt like reporting the woman for child
abuse. But then he asked if she had ever thought of going
to a church for help. To this, the woman cried, Church!
Why would I ever go there? I was already feeling terrible
about myself. They'd just make me feel worse.
Levi felt worse by the way the people treated him due
to his dirty job as a tax collector. But Jesus befriended Levi,
though He did not gloss over his state as a sinner who
needs repentance and a sick person who needs a doctor,
just as John told the tax collectors who came to him earlier:
Don't collect any more than you are required to (v.13).
We all should learn from Christs example. When we take a
stand against sin, we are doing our work as Christs
representative. But then we need to be careful that we
dont send away sinners who came to church because they
have nowhere else to turn, by treating them with disdain.
Rather, with love, we should entreat them, and invite them
to the saving grace in Christ.
 Birthday Blessing: He allowed no one to oppress them;
for their sake he rebuked kings. Ps. 105:14
RBT Passage: Judges 4-5
No one is beyond the reach of Gods mercy; dont despair
any sinner. XB
I74
Friday, March 15 Luke 15:1-10
THE JOY OF FINDING LOST THINGS
And when she finds it, she calls her friends and neighbors
together and says, 'Rejoice with me; I have found my lost
coin. Luke 15:9, NIV
ecently, I mistakenly dropped my phone as I alighted
from a taxi. I didnt realise it until I had to make a
phone call. The pain in my heart showed on my face;
one lady had to ask me if there was no problem. Of course,
there was. As I began to think about my contacts and other
personal stuffs on the phone, my husband showed up. The
cab driver had called the last dialled number on my phone,
(my husbands), and asked him to come get the phone.
That was a rare gesture, I said, as my heart swelled with
joy. Anyone who has once lost something or someone can
relate with Jesus story of the lost sheep and coin. Jesus
was responding to those who accused him of relating with
tax collectors and sinners. He said His focus was to bring
them to the fold and cause the angels to rejoice over them.
For the joy that will well up in the Fathers heart, we
must not give up on those who are lost and do not know
exactly where they are going. Like Jesus, we should not shut
out unbelievers from our relationship circle; nor get carried
away as to lose the focus of relating with them. Our aim is
to make the Fathers heart glad and cause angels to rejoice
as sinners come to know Jesus as Lord and Saviour.
 Birthday Blessing: Commit to the Lord whatever you
do, and your plans will succeed. Proverbs 16:3
RBT Passage: Judges 6-8
The most valuable thing on earth is the human soul; God
invested so much into it and is happy when it is restored to
Him. XB
R75
Saturday, March 16 Luke 15:25-32
EVERYTHING IS YOURS
My son, the father said, you are always with me, and
everything I have is yours. Luke 15:31, NIV
n his book, The Gospel for Real Life, Jerry Bridges tells of
a slave who had an amicable relationship with his
master. To express his appreciation to this slave, the
master apportioned 50,000 dollars to him in his will, and
deposited it in a bank. One day, the slave called the banker
and asked, Can I have fifty cents to buy a sack of
cornmeal? He was begging for fifty cents when he is
entitled to 50,000 dollars. The older brother of the prodigal
son is like this slave. He has a compensation mentality and
feels he has received less than he deserves for his
commitment to their fathers work. He fails to realise that
he is entitled to so much more than the pittance he is
asking for.
Whenever we look at another believer and think that
we deserve to be blessed of God more than them (perhaps
because we thought we are more committed to God), we
are like this older brother. Such mentality only robs us of
who we really are in God. As the father told the older
brother, He is also telling us today: Everything I have is
yours. Instead of comparing yourself with others in relation
to God, take your rightful position in Him and claim what
belongs to you without complaining about what others get
or do not get.
 Birthday Blessing: Rejoice in the Lord always. I will say it
again rejoice - Philippians 4:4
RBT Passage: Judges 9-10
Prejudice distorts what it sees, deceives when it talks, and
destroys when it acts. Anonymous
I76
Sunday, March 17 Luke 15:11-24
JUST AS YOU ARE
I will set out and go back to my father and say to him:
Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you. I am
no longer worthy to be called your son; make me like one of
your hired men.' Luke 15:18-19, NIV
n artist needed a man to pose as the prodigal son for
him to paint. He met a beggar on the street and
asked him to be the model, with a promise to pay
him. The beggar accepted the offer and was asked to come
to the artists studio at an appointed time. At the said time,
the beggar appeared, neatly shaven and all dressed up.
Who are you? asked the artist. I am the beggar,
answered the man. I thought I'd get cleaned up before I got
painted. No, I wanted you to come as you were. I have no
use of you this way.
After the prodigal son came back to his senses, he did
not put up a show. He faced the fact that in his present
state, he was no longer worthy to be called the fathers son
(v. 19). He went back to his father just as he was, seeking
forgiveness. God always wants us to come to Him as we are
 no pretence, no make-up, no cover-up  acknowledging
our need of Him. Perhaps you are not proud of who you are
at the moment. God wants you to come as you are; He not
only sees you for what you are now but is willing to make
you that person He wants you to be.
 Birthday Blessing: Do not be afraid, O Jacob, my
servant, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen. Isaiah 44:2
RBT Passage: Judges 11-13
God takes us as we are and makes us more than we could
ever imagine. Neill Marriot
A77
Monday, March 18 Exodus 22:1-3; Numbers 5:5-7
MAKING IT RIGHT
He must make full restitution for his wrong, add one fifth
to it and give it all to the person he has wronged.
Numbers 5:7, NIV
woman accused her shop attendant of stealing. She
claimed she kept a sum of money in a particular shelf in the
shop and couldnt find it afterwards. She concluded it was
the attendant who stole it. She invited passersby who shouted on
the girl, beat her and tore her clothes. Later, that day (as she
confessed to a friend), she found the money in another place in
the shop. She asked, How can I face her to tell her I was wrong?
Fairness, equity and restitution are three principles
found in todays text. One of the instructions God gave Moses
for the Israelites is that anyone who wronged another must
confess what he has done and make full restitution to the
person. Apologising is not enough; the person must pay the
injured party some money commensurate with the loss
incurred. God considers sin against another person as sin
against Him. Though we are not under the law, these
principles are still relevant to us today. Whenever we hurt
people, we should be willing and quick to apologise, then
make things right. As a body of Christ, we cant be united to
fight the devil and win victory if we refuse to settle offences
and restore those who are hurting. To have peace in the
Spirit, we must always seek to be right with God and others.
 Birthday Blessing: The Lord will have compassion on
Jacob; once again he will choose Israel and will settle
them in their land... Isaiah 14:1
RBT Passage: Judges 14-16
True spirituality is not evidenced in how much we know but in
how quick we are in mending broken fences. Anonymous
A78
Tuesday, March 19 Deuteronomy 26:16-19
AFTER YOU SAY I DO
You have declared this day that the Lord is your God and
that you will walk in his ways ... And the Lord has declared
this day that you are his people and that you are to keep all
his commands. Deuteronomy 26:17-18, NIV
xchanging marriage vows is a crucial part of the church
wedding. The couple looks forward to this time because it
is the part where they will express their love for each other
and make promises to stick together for better for worse. But
experience has shown that saying the wedding vows is easy;
keeping them is the tough job. Moses reiterated to the Israelites
the implication of the vows they made before the Lord. Just like
in a marriage contract, the Israelites avowed to keep the Lords
commandments, and the Lord also avowed to make them His
peculiar people as long as they keep their vows.
Someone said that whenever there is a breach of
contract between humans and God, always trace the breach
to the human. By His nature, God does not lie; He always
keeps His own part of the agreement. The decision to make
Jesus the Lord of your life is like saying I do; but saying is
not enough; you must be ready to stay true to Him in all
seasons. We must not be fair-weather Christians who only
keep commitment when things go the way we wish. Even
when times are hard and the environment does not
encourage us to be faithful, we must keep our vows; for that
is the secret of a lasting and blessed relationship with Him.
 Birthday Blessing: Wait for the LORD and keep his
way. He will exalt you to inherit the land. Ps 37:34
RBT Passage: Judges 17-19
The true follower of Christ willsay, "This is truth. God help
me to walk in it, let come what may!" A. W. Tozer
E79
Wednesday, March 20 Luke 4:38-43
EXISTING OR LIVING?
I must preach the good news of the kingdom of God ...
because that is why I was sent. Luke 4:43, NIV
ogi Berra was a famous catcher for the New York Yankees,
and Hank Aaron, the chief hitter for the Milwaukee Braves.
Both of their teams were playing in the World Series. Yogis
intention was to distract the Milwaukee players so his team
could have their way. As the game went on, he said to Aaron,
Hank, you are holding the bat wrong. Youre supposed to hold it
so you can read the trademark. Aaron ignored Yogi initially but
later came and said to him, I didnt come up here to read.
Jesus left the synagogue for Simons house, where he
healed Simons mother-in-law and others with diverse
diseases; and then came to the desert. The people came to
meet Him there, prodding Him to continue staying with
them. But Jesus knew His purpose and no circumstance or
achievement could derail Him. He said assuredly that His
purpose was to preach the good news (v. 43). Discovering
purpose is crucial to meaningful living. Without a sense of
purpose, we would just be occupying space without actually
living. Living begins when we come to know Christ and
identify our purpose in Him. In pursuing purpose, we shed
off distractions and every weight that can entangle us. Have
you found purpose in Christ? Have you found something
you wish to die for? Myles Munroe said, The greatest
tragedy in life is not death, but a life without purpose.
 Birthday Blessing: In that day they will say, surely this
is our God; we trust in Him- Isa. 25: 9
RBT Passage: Judges 20-21
When purpose is not known, abuse is inevitable.
--Myles Munroe
Y80
Thursday, March 21 Luke 18:15-17
CHILDLIKE OR CHILDISH?
Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them,
for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these.
Luke 18:16, NIV
he innocence, amazement and trust of children always
makes one imagine their kind of heart. A child has the
tendency to listen, trust and believe absolutely. Little
wonder Jesus told His disciples that whosoever will not receive
the kingdom of God as a child will not enter it. The disciples
would have thought that Jesus was not interested in little
children, and so would not allow them to see Jesus. But Jesus
called the children to Himself, telling the disciples that the
kingdom of God belongs to those who will be like children. Here
Jesus was talking about childlike faith that depends totally on
God, trusts Him absolutely even when things do not add up.
But childlike faith is not childish. Jesus was not saying
we should emulate childish behaviours and refuse to grow
up in our Christian journey. C.S Lewis said, Christ wants a
childs heart, but a grown-ups head. He wants us to be
simple, single-minded, affectionate, and teachable, as good
children are; but He also wants every bit of intelligence we
have to be alert at its job, and in first-class fighting trim.
Apostle Paul put it this way (1 Corinthians 14:20), Do not
be children in understanding; however, in malice be babes,
but in understanding be mature.
 Birthday Blessing: The people walking in darkness
have seen a great light; on those living in the land of
the shadow of death a light has dawn- Isaiah 9:2
RBT Passage: Ruth 1-4
In malice be babes, but in understanding be mature.
The Holy Bible
T81
Friday, March 22 Luke 18:18-30
INHERITING ETERNAL LIFE: ON WHOSE TERMS?
[Jesus] said to him, You still lack one thing. Sell everything
you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in
heaven. Then come, follow me. Luke 18:22, NIV
he story of the rich young ruler is worthy of our
attention, seeing it is recorded in the gospel accounts
of Matthew, Mark and Luke. This man had all that
identify one as an achiever in the world. He was young, rich,
and a ruler. To add a feather to his cap, he came to Jesus,
asking what he must do to inherit eternal life. He must have
understood, perhaps having heard Jesus teachings, that
eternal life is real. But he missed it because he thought he
could gain heaven by his own terms.
Like this rich young ruler, many today love to identify
with the kingdom of God, but on their own terms. They
cannot go through the demanding process of discipleship
but they would love to be called Christians. They do not
want to lose their worldly ambience, friends and influences,
yet they want to be identified with Jesus. But the hard truth
is that we have to come to God on His own terms, not ours.
The rich young ruler walked away, sorrowful because the
sacrifice Jesus demanded of him was too big to pay. What
demands of Jesus upon your life have you been finding
difficult to honour? What things would you have to let go
today to become Jesus true disciple here on earth and to
reign with Him in eternity?
Birthday Blessing: Say to those with fearful hearts, Be
strong, do not fear; your God will come- Isaiah 35:4
RBT Passage: 1 Samuel 1-3
"The path to greatness is self-sacrifice for the good of
others." Yemi Osinbajo
T82
Saturday, March 23 Luke 18:35-43
WHEN JESUS PASSES BY
They told him, Jesus of Nazareth is passing by. He called
out, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me! Luke 18:37-38,
NIV
hen a certain French queen travelled through her
country, her aides were given orders that no
people in sadness or in trouble  blind, lame, or
suffering should be allowed anywhere along the way; to
keep from the sight of the gentlewoman anything that might
cause her pain. So, when a poor woman came to the road
hoping to ask her for something to feed her and her
daughter, else they die of hunger, she was whisked away
even before she got to the queen.
But the blind man in todays text would not allow people
to hinder him from reaching Jesus. Though he couldnt
physically see, his mind was wide open and he was sensitive
to seize the moment which he knew may never come again.
He knew Jesus so well to trace Him to His lineage, but he did
not lose sight of Jesus power to deliver him. Bartimaeus
physical blindness could be a metaphor for spiritual
blindness. And as the man did, only those who acknowledge
their state and their need of a Saviour, and cry unto Him
would be delivered from darkness to light. As it was for the
blind man, we all have series of opportunities each day, but it
takes those who are sensitive to identify when Gods door is
open to seize the opportunity to their blessing.
 Birthday Blessing: He will cause to come down for
you, the rain, the former rain, the latter rain Joel 2:23
RBT Passage: 1 Samuel. 4-7 There is a place in Gods sun
for the youth farthest down who has the vision,
determination, and the courage to reach it." Mary Bethure
W83
Sunday, March 24 Luke 19:1-10
MEETING THE UNDESIRABLE
When Jesus reached the spot, he looked up and said to
him, Zacchaeus, come down immediately. I must stay at
your house today. Luke 19:5, NIV
he first Sunday Onome went to church, she created
some kind of stir. She was wearing a tank top on a pair
of jeggings that looked too tight for her, with bathroom
slippers. Her hair was unkempt and uncovered. She noticed
everyone shifted their gaze to her as she wobbled into a seat
close to the door. But then a lady, whom she later identified
as Tara, came to sit beside her, trying to chat with her.
Onome looked worn and sick, tired of her life as a street girl.
She later became friends with Tara who led her to Christ.
Not too many of us are like Tara, especially when
someone undesirable shows up in church. In the same
way, the people of Jesus days could not fathom how Jesus
could associate with a man of bad reputation like
Zacchaeus. Zacchaeus was an enemy of the community
because he extorted money from the people on behalf of
the Roman government. That Jesus could easily spot
Zacchaeus in the midst of the crowd reveals Jesus concern
for those who are lost, even in their undesirable state. What
adjustments do you need to make in your life to give room
for those who make you uncomfortable or are undesirable
but needs to be touched with Jesus loving grace?
 Birthday Blessing: But you will not leave in haste or go
in flight; for the Lord will go before you... Isaiah 52:12
RBT Passage: 1 Samuel 8-12
"If you want to be like Jesus, then love the unlovable,
forgive the unworthy and do good to those who cant repay
you." Anonymous
T84
Monday, March 25 Exodus 18:1-12
SOMETHING WORTH SHARING
Moses told his father-in-law about everything the Lord had
donefor Israel's sake an how the Lord had saved them.
Exodus 18:8
arin Krachova had never heard the gospel, having
grown up under communism. One day in 1995,
however, she overheard some Christian students at
her university describe how God had protected them and
their families during the Communist years. As Karin
listened, she began to wonder if there really might be a
God. Months later, through her friendship with these
students, Karin became a Christian herself.
After hearing what the Lord had done for Moses and the
people of Israel, Jethro took Moses wife and two children to
reunite with Moses. Moses then seized the opportunity to tell
Jethro more of the good deeds of the Lord to him and Israel.
His report covers both the period of hardship and how the
Lord delivered the Israelites from the Egyptians with a mighty
hand. Jethro couldnt hold back his joy; he rejoiced for the
miracles, and thereafter responded to Gods goodness in
worship, offering sacrifices to the God of Israel. What do you
consider the most interesting gist you will like to share with
family and friends, at a reunion or a get-together? Every
opportunity we have to interact with people should be
maximised to tell of Gods goodness and deliverance in our
lives. The gospel is worth sharing and telling others of the
loving deeds of the God we serve is one way of sharing it.
 Birthday Blessing: whosoever shall gather together
against thee shall fall for thy sake- Isa. 54:15
RBT Passage: 1 Samuel 13-14
The gospel message is dependable and worth sharing. XB
K85
Tuesday, March 26 Deuteronomy 8:1-11
REMEMBER AND BE THANKFUL
Remember how the Lord your God led you all the way in
the desert these forty years, to humble you and to test you
in order to know what was in your heart. Deuteronomy 8:2
orgetfulness, science affirms, comes with old age. People
tend to have memory issues as they advance in years.
But in reality, not only aged people forget things; even
young people do, sometimes. Forgetfulness could become a
cause for concern when it begins to have colossal impact on
our lives. Moses admonished the Israelites to avoid the
dangers of forgetfulness, as they were getting ready to enter
the Promised Land. They should remember the God of their
weary years; remember how they suffered hunger; how God
humbled them and how they went many years with a set of
clothes and sandals which did not wear out. The antidote to
forgetfulness is to remember the good deeds of God and be
thankful. Being thankful would cause them to keep His
commandments, walk in His ways and fear Him.
When things are going well for us, it is easy to begin to feel
independent of God. In times of prosperity, we may forget the
true source of blessing or even assume that our success is a
result of our own efforts. That is why we need to continually
pray that God will forever keep us on the path, so we will not
stray from where we met Him; that He would help us to stand
true to our confessions when we first met Jesus. And to remain
thankful to Him, walking in His ways and doing His will.
 Birthday Blessing: I will make an everlasting covenant
with you, even the sure mercy of David- Isaiah 55:3
RBT Passage: 1 Samuel 15-16
"May I never forget on my best day that I need God as
desperately as I did on my worst day." Anonymous
F86
Wednesday, March 27 Luke 9:28-36
BEHOLDING HIS GLORY
Peter and his companions were very sleepy, but when they
became fully awake, they saw his glory and the two men
standing with him. Luke 9:32, NIV
wo men usually met on Saturday at their church to pray
together. One day, the churchs sexton saw them come
out of the room where they were praying and said there
was something radiant about their faces. Peter, James and
John had such experience when they followed Jesus to a
mountain to pray. There, they saw and heard who Jesus really
was. The glory of the transfigured Christ was so powerful that
Peter wished that they would not leave the scene. Later in his
letter, Peter (2 Peter1:16-18) wrote confidently, We did not
follow cleverly invented stories when we told you about the
power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were
eyewitnesses of his majesty... when the voice came to him
from the Majestic Glory, saying, This is my Son, whom I love;
with him I am well pleased.
How can we behold Christs glory today? Paul gives us
a clue: But we all, with unveiled face, beholding as in a
mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the
same image from glory to glory, just as from the Lord, the
Spirit (2 Corinthians. 3:18). When we come aside, away
from the frustrations and confusions of this world, in
fellowship with the Master, we experience His glory and we
are transformed to change the world around us.
 Birthday Blessing: The Lord will be your everlasting
light, and your God will be your glory- Isaiah 60:19
RBT Passage: 1 Samuel 17-18
"The glory of God is a human being fully alive; and to be
alive consists in beholding Gods glory." Irenaeus of Lyons
T87
Thursday, March 28 Matthew 3:11-17
EARNING APPROVAL
And a voice from heaven said, This is my Son, whom I
love; with him I am well pleased. Matthew 3:17, NIV
n online survey reports how posting selfie before, during
and after every activity has become a norm for many
young people. The resulting likes, thumbs-ups and other
ratings then turn into an obsession about approval, which is
wreaking havoc on their self-image. The survey called
Children, Teens, Media, and Body Image found that many
teens who are active online fret about how they're perceived,
and that girls are particularly vulnerable. Gods approval
preceded the beginning of Jesus earthly ministry. As Jesus
came out of the water after His baptism, the Spirit of God
descended on Him as a dove, and the Father affirmed that He
is well pleased with Him. This is one of the scenes that
confirmed Jesus oneness with the Father and the Holy Spirit.
Seeking approval is a natural human tendency and many of
us spend the most part of our lives trying to get others to
validate our actions. This is not wrong in itself but where we look
for affirmation matters. Getting Gods approval is the greatest
thing that can happen to anyone in life. And the first step in
achieving that is by accepting Christ. Peoples validations are
often coloured by their subjective judgment of things. But God
who knows everything is the One we should seek validations
from. Tired of trying to please people every now and then? Get
Gods approval today and everything else will be fine.
 Birthday Blessing: Even to your old age and gray hairs
I am He, I am He who will sustain you. Isa. 46:4
RBT Passage: 1 Samuel 19-21
"You may be rejected by some, but if you are accepted by
One, you have all you need." Alex Sanfilippo
A88
Friday, March 29 Matthew 4:1-11
FIGHTING TEMPTATION
Jesus answered, It is written: Man does not live on bread
alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of
God. Matthew 4:4
ohn Miltons classic poem Paradise Lost tells the story
of the temptation and fall of Adam and Eve. The sequel,
Paradise Regained, featured Christ and His temptation
by Satan in the wilderness. Miltons view is that because
Adam and Eve succumbed to Satans temptation, humanity
lost the first Paradise but that Jesus victory over the devils
temptation in the wilderness ushers in the restoration of
what has been lost. That Jesus was led into the desert to be
tempted of the devil (v.1) is an indication that temptation is
inevitable for us. Satan tempted Jesus in three areas of
human need: food, personal glory and power. But Jesus
would not give in to the devil because He knows His
authority is greater than that of the devil.
Each day, we are faced with the reality of our
numerous needs (physiological, emotional) and we have to
decide how we want to meet these needs: whether by godly
means or by ungodly scheming. But like Jesus did, we must
always stand, knowing that compromising Gods word
means succumbing to the devil. Gods Word gives us a true
picture of who we are; when we know this, we are equipped
to fight temptation and come out victorious, just like Jesus.
 Birthday Blessing: Tell the righteous it will be well with
them, for they will enjoy the fruit of their deeds- Isa 3:10.
RBT Passage: 1 Samuel 22-24
The nearer to heaven in hopes, the farther from earth in
desires.  William Gurnall
J89
Saturday, March 30 Matthew 4:23-25
MEETING NEEDS WITH THE GOSPEL
...And people brought to him all who were ill with various
diseases, those suffering severe pain, the demonpossessedand he healed them. Matthew 4:24, NIV
ay in day out, we hear of people who are suffering. In
our neighborhoods, work places, and in other places
where we meet people, we face the reality of
unending human needs. Our resources are limited and we
are often frustrated as to how much we can do. What we
fail to realise however is that the gospel has all it takes to
meet varying human needs. Jesus demonstrated this in the
neighbourhood of Galilee. Todays text records how Jesus
moved round Galilee, teaching in their synagogues,
preaching the gospel and healing all manner of diseases.
As a result, His fame spread throughout and many others
brought their sick to be healed by Him. The natural
response is that a great multitude followed Him from
Galilee, Decapolis, Jerusalem, Judea and beyond Jordan.
The gospel has the power to provide answers to the
enormous problems plaguing our world today. Just like Jesus
did, todays believers should also seek opportunities to meet the
varying human needs with the power of the gospel. By meeting
peoples physical, emotional and spiritual needs, we prove that
the gospel is not some abstract concept and that the God of the
Bible feels the pain that people pass through and He is willing to
bear their burdens as they come to Him in salvation.
 Birthday Blessing: Thou shall also be a crown of glory
in the hands of the Lord, and a royal diadem in the
hand of thy God Isaiah 62: 3.
RBT Passage: 1 Samuel 25-27
The gospel is Gods provision for all human needs. XB
D90
Sunday, March 31 Matthew 4:12-22
A NEW JOB
Come, follow me, Jesus said, and I will make you fishers
of men. Matthew 4:19, NIV
ver experienced the feeling of getting a new job? The
feeling is usually great especially when it is something
you love to do. Can you imagine what the experience
was for Peter, Andrew, James and John when Jesus came to
call them to leave their much-loved job as fishermen to join
Him in His business of catching people? It was a new job
but I dont think Peter and his fellow felt excited about it
perhaps because they were being moved from a familiar
terrain to an unfamiliar one. Yet, they followed Jesus. They
must have weighed their options and consider the fact that
though this new job isnt so much a familiar terrain, the one
employing them knows what is best for them.
How are you finding your own occupation? Are you
excited or bemused about it  perhaps for the pay, the
satisfaction or any other thing that is your experience at the
moment? Whatever job we do, Jesus expects us to consider
making others His disciples our topmost priority. Just as
Jesus called Peter and others, His call is extended to each
of His children today to be His fishermen, who not only
catch fish for money or survival; but whose goal is to catch
men for Him, making them His disciples.
 Birthday Blessing: He blesseth them also, so that they
are multiplied greatly and suffereth not their cattle to
decrease- Psalm 107:38.
RBT Passage: 1 Samuel 28-31
It is not great men who change the world, but weak men in
the hands of a great God. --Brother Yun
E91
Monday, April 1 Jeremiah 1:4-10
JEREMIAH, PROPHET TO THE NATIONS
See, today I appoint you over nations and kingdoms to
uproot and tear down, to destroy and overthrown, to build
and to plant. Jeremiah 1:10
t was Rick Warren who once said, While there are
illegitimate parents, there are no illegitimate children.
Many children are unplanned by their parents, but they
are not unplanned by God. Gods purpose took into account
human error, and even sin. This is true of Jeremiah as
reflected in our passage. God made him realised that
before he was conceived by his parents, God already
designated him to be a prophet to the nations and his main
assignment is to remove that which is not of God and at the
same time plant Gods righteousness among the nations.
Just as Jeremiah was called of God to serve the nations,
you also carry a destiny to serve your generation. You were born
for a specific assignment which must be discovered and
pursued. Everyone who has ever lived an impactful and
meaningful life first of all made a discovery of his life purpose.
Jesus was 12 when He started living in His purpose. David and
Joseph were 17 as at the time they entered into their journey of
purpose, and Samuel was just a little boy. Contemporary history
is also full of men who became world changers. Consider Martin
Luther King Jr. who fought against racial discrimination in
America. Just as all these men fulfilled their destinies, you are
also meant to be an answer to a particular problem.
 Birthday Blessing: The righteous shall flourish like a palm
tree; they will grow like a cedar of Lebannon" Ps 92:12
RBT Passage: 2 Samuel 1-3
The man without a purpose is like a ship without a rudder
 a waif, a nothing, a no man.  Thomas Carlyle
I92
Tuesday, April 2 Acts 9:10-19
ANANIAS WELCOMES AND BAPTIZES SAUL
The Lord said to him, Go to the house of Judas on Straight
Street and ask for a man from Tarsus named Saul, for he is
praying. Acts 9:11, NIV
very believer is made for mission. The word mission
comes from the Latin word for sending. It means
being a Christian includes being sent into the world as
a representative of Jesus Christ. Ananias, in our passage for
today, was sensitive enough to know where God needed him.
Saul had been a major threat to the Church, persecuting
anyone that identified with Christ. He was on his way to
Damascus on the same mission when he encountered Jesus
and became blind. But God needed to use Saul for great
exploits among the Gentiles and so he needed someone to
pray for him to restore his sight (Acts 9:15). Ananias was
available for this assignment though not without reservation
because of what he had heard about Saul (Acts 9:13).
Nevertheless, he obeyed the Lord (Acts 9:17).
In the same way, you are to be on mission for the Lord.
God wants you to have both a ministry in the Body of Christ
and a mission in the world. Your ministry is your service to
believers, and your mission is your service to unbelievers.
Remember, we are to follow after the footsteps of Jesus.
So, it is our responsibility as believers to seek for the poor,
the blind, and the prisoners and extend the love and mercy
of God to them.
 Birthday Blessing: They go from strength to strength,
till each appears before God in Zion Psalm 84:7.
RBT Passage: 2 Samuel 4-7
Unless you assume a God, the question of Lifes purpose
is meaningless  Bertrand Rusell
E93
Wednesday, April 3 Acts 16:6-10
PAUL CALLED BY A VISION
After Paul had seen the vision, we got ready at once to
leave for Macedonia, concluding that had called us to
preach the gospel to them. Acts 16:10
harles H. Gabriel composed Send the Light, one of
the popular Baptist hymns. One of the stanzas reads:
We have heard the Macedonian call today, Send the
light! Send the light! And a golden offering at the cross we
lay, Send the light! Send the light!" This hymn obviously was
based on the story in our passage for today. The
Macedonians are a good picture of the suffering and pain
many around us are passing through. It took Paul a vision of
the night to discern the need to take the gospel of peace
and freedom to them. The Bible described the man of
Macedonia as standing and begging (Acts 16:9). This is
the situation of many people around us today. They are
thirsty and hungry for God. They want their vacuum filled.
Through Pauls efforts, Macedonia became the first
part of Europe that received the gospel. It was also through
Pauls ministry that a slave girl from that region received
deliverance from the spirit of divination (Acts 16:16-18).
There is a Macedonia waiting for your attention
(Ecclesiastes 4:1; Romans 8:19-21). So, the question is,
where will you go for God? On what course do you want to
pour your life as drink offering? Have you been able to
locate a Macedonia and what will be your response?
 Birthday Blessing: I keep my eyes always on the Lord.
With him at my right hand, I will not be shaken Ps. 16:8.
RBT Passage: 2 Samuel 8-11
God doesnt play dice  Albert Einstein
C94
Thursday, April 4 Mark 6:7-13
JESUS SENDS OUT THE TWELVE
Calling the twelve to him, he began to send out two by two
and gave them authority over impure spirit. Mark 6:7
man was giving out gospel tracts on a steamer. One
gentleman whom he approached accepted a tract
graciously but said, "I haven't much faith in that kind of
work." The Christian worker replied, "It was through a gospel
tract given to me twenty years ago that I was converted."
Asking for particulars, the gentleman discovered that it was he
who had given him the tract! He had ceased to do this because
he saw so few results from his efforts. He added, "But by the
grace of God I shall start again." We have all been called to
witness to the saving grace in Christ Jesus. The disciples
demonstrated this as outlined in our passage today. God has
given you a life message to share. When you became a
believer, you also became Gods messenger. God want to
speak to the world through you as he did through the disciples.
Are you committed to the great commission?
Remember, a great commitment to the great commission
and the great commandment will make you a great Christian.
You have a story you can share with people around you.
According to Rick Warren, your life message is in four parts:
your testimony; your life lessons; your godly passions; and the
Good News. Now, reflect on your personal story and think of
whom the Lord wants you to share it with today.
 Birthday Blessing: I, the Lordwill keep you and give
you as a covenant to the people, as a light to the
Gentiles Isaiah 42:6a
RBT Passage: 2 Samuel 12-13
A friend  a true friend  is the first person who comes in
when the whole world has gone out  Anonymous
A95
Friday, April 5 Matthew 9:35-38
A GREAT HARVEST BUT FEW WORKERS
The harvest is plentiful but the workers are few. Mat. 9:37
man travelling along a dark road one stormy night met
a man who said to him in a hesitant manner, "I think
maybe the bridge is out. At least I heard something to
that effect." The traveller was not impressed and decided to
proceed. A little farther on a man came rushing out of the
dark and said, "Stop! Don't go any farther. The bridge is out!"
So passionately convincing were his tones that the traveller
turned back, and his life was saved. That is how we are to
witness, with passion and conviction. In todays passage,
Jesus looked at the people with compassion because they
were like sheep without shepherd.
The Church today could be described as fast asleep in
Zion while the devil is ravaging the land and perpetuating it
with every act of unrighteousness. The church, unconsciously,
has subtly substitute evangelism with merrymaking. We have
been deceived that we have done enough and that this is the
time of rest, whereas this is the time of great harvest for the
church of Jesus. The commission Jesus gave to the church was
very clear and simple. Unfortunately, this commission has
been misunderstood and wrongly executed by the Church.
Until the Church understands the thrust of the Great
Commission and passionately commit to its fulfilment, there
will continue to be perversions in our land.
 Birthday Blessing: When you pass through the waters,
I will be with you, and when you pass through the
rivers, they will not sweep over you Isaiah 43:2
RBT Passage: 2 Samuel 14-16
We dont see things as they are, we see them as we are
 Anais Nin
A96
Saturday, April 6 Matthew 10:16-25
HANDLING AND SURVIVING PERSECUTION
I am sending you out like sheep among wolves. Therefore,
be as shrewd as snakes and as innocent as doves.
Matthew 10:16, NIV
young Baptist undergraduate with other Christians fell
into the hands of Boko Haram sect. They asked them
to alight from the vehicle and identify themselves by
their religion. Those who are Christians were separated to
one side and were asked to renounce their faith otherwise
they would be beheaded. While few consented, this young
Baptist with another Deeper Life pastor refused to deny their
faith. They were subsequently beheaded and others were
released. In our passage for today, Jesus warned upfront that
believers will be persecuted as a result of identifying with
Christ. The early followers of Jesus knew what it means to
suffer for Christ as a result of sharing the gospel with people.
Are you going through a measure of persecution at the
moment as a result of your faith in Jesus? Is the suffering
becoming unbearable for you? You need to hold on to the
profession of your faith knowing that Jesus Himself went
through the same suffering while on earth. It is vital that
you stay focused on Gods plan, not your pain or problem.
That is how Jesus endured the pain of the cross, and we are
urged to follow His example. He was willing to die a
shameful death on the cross because of the joy that comes
with it. So, you too should hold on to Him.
 Birthday Blessing: You, Lord, keep my lamp burning;
my God turns my darkness into light Psalm 18:2
RBT Passage: 2 Samuel 17-19
It is the fire of suffering that brings forth the gold of
godliness  Madame Guyon
A97
Sunday, April 7 Matthew 10:1-15
THE TWELVE CHOSEN AND COMMISSIONED
As you go, proclaim this message: The kingdom of heaven
has come near. Matthew 10:7
love the way Rick Warren distinguishes between a worldclass Christian and a worldly Christian. Worldly Christians look
to God primarily for personal fulfilment. They are saved, but
self-centred. They love to attend concerts and enrichment
seminars, but you will never find them at a mission conference.
In contrast, world-class Christians know they were saved to
serve and made for a mission. They are eager to receive a
personal assignment and excited about the privilege of being
used by God. One way to become a world-class Christian is to be
enlisted in the Great Commission. This is exactly what Jesus did
for the disciples as we see in todays passage. He wanted them
to make the Great Commission their mission. He commissioned
them with authority to share the greatest message on earth.
Today, their names are known globally.
God is inviting you also to participate in the most
significant message in history. The Great Commission
should be your mission. Are you actively involved in sharing
the great news of the kingdom of God? There are several
ways you can do this: by shifting from self-centred thinking
to people-centred thinking and by shifting from local
thinking to global thinking. The essence of the endowment
of the Holy Spirit is for evangelism and missions. Will you
allow God to work and walk through you today?
 Birthday Blessing: The Lord will surely comfort Zion and
will look with compassion on all her ruins Isaiah 51:3
RBT Passage: 2 Samuel 20-22
A Christian without affliction is only like a soldier on
parade.  Felix Neff
I98
Monday, April 8 Exodus 12:1-14
THE ORIGIN OF PASSOVER CELEBRATION
This is a day you are to commemorate; for the generation
to come you shall celebrate it as a festival to the Lord  a
lasting ordinance. Exodus 12:14
king once gave a ring to his favorite, and said to him,
"I know that at the council tomorrow a charge of
heresy will be brought against you; but, when you
come in, answer them if you will, but you need be in no fear;
if you find yourself brought to desperation, simply show
them the ring, and they will go no further."
The Passover ordinance was instituted in the Old
Testament at the eve of the Israelites exodus from Egypt. It
symbolises their permanent deliverance from slavery in Egypt.
Subsequently, God instructed them to keep this feast in
memorial throughout their generations (Exodus 12:14). With
this, the feast of Passover became one of the three feasts
(Pentecost and Tabernacles being the other two) the Israelites
observed every year which necessitated their trip to Jerusalem
three times a year. Later in the New Testament Jesus partook
of the Passover feast and this was very significant; it was to
give meaning to the Old Testament shadow of this experience.
In other words, Jesus is our Passover Lamb  Gods final
substitute for human degradation. Jesus came to deliver us
from every form of oppression, therefore do not allow the devil
to oppress you in any form. Fix your gaze on your Passover
Lamb that has taken away your sins.
 Birthday Blessing: Now I will break their yoke from
your neck and tear your shackles away Nahum 1:13
RBT Passage: 2 Samuel 23-24
One of Gods richest blessings is His peace that can never
be disturbed.  F.E. Marsh
A99
Tuesday, April 9 Luke 16: 19-31
CARE FOR THE POOR
The time came when the beggar died and the angels
carried him to Abrahams side. The rich man also died and
was buried. Luke 16:22, NIV
little boy, sitting next to a lady in church, noticed that she
had nothing for the collection plate. As the collector
approached, the little fellow seemed greatly disturbed
because his seatmate had nothing to give. When the steward
got within a few pews' distance he handed over his silver piece
to the lady, as he whispered in her ear: "Take this, and I'll get
under the seat till he goes by." Such sensitive souls as this boy
are exceedingly rare. The story told by Jesus about Lazarus and
the Rich Man, as captured in todays passage, graphically
illustrates this profound truth about showing care to the less
privileged.
The rich man spent his life without any consideration for
God. He did not give regard to the needy around him either.
By implication, he was not a good steward of Gods blessings
in his life and ended up in torment. Lazarus, a very poor man,
lived perpetually at the rich mans gate in hunger. . Eventually
Lazarus died in this state. But the good thing is that he was
carried by the angels to the bosom of Abraham. People may
seem poor in material things but rich in their relationship with
God. As believers we should never look down on anyone or
treat the poor with contempt. Learn to honour everyone and
care especially for the poor around you today.
 Birthday Blessing: I will make you into a great nation,
and I will bless you. Genesis 12:2
RBT Passage: 1 Kings 1-2
Life doesnt consist in an abundance of possession.
 The Holy Bible
A100
Wednesday, April 10 John 12:1-8
MARY ANOINTS JESUS BODY FOR BURIAL
Then Mary took about a pint of pure nard, an expensive
perfume, she poured it on Jesus feet and wiped his feet
with her hair. John 12:3a
missionary society was deeply impressed by the
courageous devotion of David Livingstone who
worked single-handedly for God in Africa. The society
wrote to Livingstone: "Have you found a good road to where
you are? If so, we want to send other men to join you."
Livingstone replied, "If you have men who will come only if
there is a good road, I don't want them. I want men who will
come if there is no road at all." Such is a life that was
completely poured out for God. Mary, as reflected in todays
passage, followed the same path of dire hard devotion to
Christ by her symbolic act of pouring the expensive perfume
on Jesus. The perfume was estimated to worth 300 denarii,
equivalent to a years wages. That may well have
represented her life savings. But she decided to waste it
on Jesus as Judas insinuated.
What is your level of devotion to Christ? There is always
something beautiful and fragrant about what we do out of
love. No act performed out of a mere sense of duty, or out of
obligation, can fill the air with that kind of fragrance. You
must understand that your life is like a liquid and will be
poured on something someday. Will you allow Jesus to fill the
remaining empty spaces in your heart with His love today?
 Birthday Blessing: If they obey and serve him, they will
spend the rest of their days in prosperity and their
years in contentment Job 36:11.
RBT Passage: 1 Kings 3-5
All that is not eternal is eternally useless.  C.S. Lewis
A101
Thursday, April 11 John 11:47-53
ONE MUST DIE FOR THE NATION
You do not realize that it is better for you that one man die
for the people than the whole nation perish. John 11:50
bee was drawn into the open window of a car
travelling down the road. The bee was upset, and so
was a boy in the car, who had previously suffered a
severe reaction from a bee sting. But before things got out
of hand, the boy's father caught the bee in his hand and
tossed it back out the window. Then he pulled the car over
to comfort his son. The boy, however, was now desperately
worried that his father would die from the bee sting. "Oh,
no," said the father, showing him that his hand was only
slightly swollen. "The sting won't hurt me like it would you,
so I took the sting for you." And that is just what Jesus did
for us: He took the sting of death for us. That was the
prophecy of Caiaphas, the high priest, about Jesus as
reflected in todays passage (John 11:51).
There are still many today who reject this wonderful
offer of Gods forgiveness through Jesus, though some
through ignorance. That is why you and I must be ready to
tell others that a saviour has died for their sins. And how
can they hear without someone preaching to them?
(Romans 10:14c). Are there people around you that must
know that Jesus has died for him? What do you want to do
about it today?
 Birthday Blessing: Worship the Lord your God and his
blessing will be on your food and water. I will take
sickness away from among you Exodus 23:25.
RBT Passage: 1 Kings 6-7
Calvary has open the gateway to Gods asset.
Rick Joyner
A102
Friday, April 12 Matthew 26: 14-16
JUDAS NEGOTIATES THE HANDOVER OF JESUS
From then on Judas watched for an opportunity to hand
him over. Matthew 26:16, NIV
o you know the guy named Gehazi? What do you
think he has in common with Judas? Gehazi was a
disciple of the prophet Elisha just as Judas was a
disciple of Jesus. Gehazi fell to the trap of the love of money
which made him to collect the gifts his master had rejected.
Gehazi became leprous as a result of this action and lost
his place in the prophetic heritage. His story was captured
in 2 Kings 5:19-27. Judas obviously followed the same path
as Gehazi when he betrayed his master for thirty pieces of
silver! The Bible had warned that believers should be
careful about the subtle deception of riches (Matthew
13:32).
The love of money is the root of all evil. Believers must
prioritise godliness and contentment because it always
leads to great gain. When these two virtues are not in place
in believers heart, it is easy to deny and displace Christ in
the heart. Is your devotion to Christ and His course still
intact? Are you not pursuing wealth and riches at the
expense of your commitment to Christ? Are you not denying
Christ in your conduct on the daily basis? Learn from Judas;
he lost his place in the apostolic heritage. Renew your
commitment to Christ today.
 Birthday Blessing: Those who trusts in the Lord are
like Mount Zion, which cannot be shaken but endures
forever Psalm 125: 1.
RBT Passage: 1 Kings 8-9
When you live in light of eternity, your values change.
Gbile Akanni
D103
Saturday, April 13 Matthew 26: 17-29
JESUS CELEBRATES THE LAST PASSOVER MEAL
I tell you, I will not drink from this fruit of the vineuntil I
drink it anew with you in my Fathers kingdom Matthew 26:29
t has been established that the Old Testament is the New
Testament concealed while the New Testament is the Old
Testament revealed. In other words, the reality and the
significance of the Passover feast instituted in the Old
Testament are found in Jesus. In todays passage, Jesus
observed the Passover meal with His disciples for the last time.
Just as the blood of bull provided the Israelites deliverance
from the onslaught in Egypt, Jesus made the disciples realized
that His blood represented the new covenant God is making
with the human race that would provide for forgiveness of sins:
This is the blood of the covenant, which is poured out for
many for the forgiveness of sins (V. 28). By implication, Jesus
summed up the significance of His death.
What is the significance of this Last Supper Jesus had
with the disciples for us in this dispensation? It means His
death is Gods guarantee that new promises to mankind
have gone into effect. Through the death of Christ
forgiveness of sins is made available to all mankind. And
his resurrection is the guarantee that Jesus will come again,
to escort us to our place in His Fathers kingdom (Matthew
26:29). This should excite us and ignite our hope as we
observe our pilgrimage on this side of eternity. We are
victorious by the blood of Jesus Christ!
 Birthday Blessing: And we know that in all things, God
works for the good of those who love him Rom 8:28
RBT Passage: 1 Kings 10-12
The art of being thankful keeps your countenance in good
place and your energy alluring.  Lavaille Lavette
I104
Sunday, April 14 Matthew 26: 1-13
JESUS DEFENDS THE WOMANS BEAUTIFUL ACT
When the disciples saw this, they were indignant. Why this
waste? They asked Matthew 26:8, NIV
hen you are disposed to criticize a friend, Just
remember, the beginning's not the end; When
within this urge you find, These three questions
bring to mind: Is it TRUE? Is it NEEDFUL? Is it KIND? This
short poem illustrates the lesson in todays passage. Jesus
was approaching the last days of His ministry and as the high
Jewish council plotted to arrest Him, Judas muting the idea of
betraying him, suddenly an unnamed woman slipped into the
house with an alabaster jar of very expensive perfume and
poured it on Jesus. The disciples were indignant about her act
and considered it a waste. Jesus, instead of criticising her, saw
her act as kind and needful, calling it a beautiful thing.
Do not be quick to pass judgment on someone elses
action. There may be deeper reason(s) for doing it. For this
woman, she had expressed her highest love and devotion
to Jesus which only Jesus could discern. We can get caught
up in our plans, in our dreams and so many religious stuffs
that we will be less concerned with what is paramount to
the Master, which is our wsorship and love. How much we
need to pause, set aside our projects and wait quietly to
sense Christs mood, and pour out our treasures of worship
on Him rather than sit in judgment on those who are
expressing such.
 Birthday Blessing: For the Lord God is a sun and
shield, the Lord bestows favor and honor Ps 84:11.
RBT Passage: 1 Kings 13-15
I thank God for my handicaps, for, through them, I have
found myself, my work, and my God.  Hellen Keller
"W105
Monday, April 15 John 11:17-27
I AM THE RESURRECTION AND THE LIFE
Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and life. The one
who believes in me, even though they die John 11:26, NIV
Muslim and a Christian were discussing their
religions and had agreed that both Mohammed and
Christ were prophets. Where, then, lay the difference?
The Christian illustrated it this way: "I came to a crossroads
and I saw a dead man and a living man. Which one did I ask
for directions?" The response came quickly, "The living one,
of course." "Why, then," asked his friend, "Do you send me
to Mohammed who is dead, instead of Christ who is alive?"
In todays passage, Mary and Martha had lost hope
about their brother, Lazarus, who had died for four days.
But Jesus came to the scene to reassure them that their
brother would come back to life. The reason is because,
Jesus had power over death. This is the basic difference
between Christ and every other religious leader. All the
others came into the world, lived, and diedbut none of
them lived again. The resurrection of Christ was the one
event that persuaded His disciples that He was Christ,
God's Son. Are you also living under the fear of death or
your life is been threatened by one sickness or the other?
Or is there any situation that is going out of control for you?
Let your faith rise now because the Christ in you has power
over all situations and circumstances.
 Birthday Blessing: Tell the righteous it will be well with
them, for they will enjoy the fruit of their deeds Isaiah
3:10
RBT Passage: 1 Kings 16-18
Everything that happens to you has spiritual significance.
 Rick Warren
A106
Tuesday, April 16 Matthew 27:3-10
JUDAS RETURNS MONEY, HANGS HIMSELF
When Judassaw that Jesus was condemned, he was
seized with remorse and returned the thirty pieces of silver
to the chief priests and elders Matthew 27:3, NIV
ave you ever been betrayed by someone or have you
betrayed someone in the past? Can you relate with
the pain that comes with betrayal? Judas' action was
a clear example of betrayal. He was an appointed disciple
and a follower of Jesus but he sold his conscience for the
momentary gain of thirty silver coins. When the Romans
wanted to capture Jesus, he was found a ready tool for the
ungodly assignment. He identified Jesus by a kiss for a
monetary reward. Unfortunately, he could not get the
satisfaction he desired from that ungodly venture. He was
pricked in the heart and had to return the money but never
truly repented. He eventually hung himself.
There are different levels of betrayal today: we see wives
betraying husbands; children betraying parents; colleagues at
work betraying each other; business associates stabbing each
other in the back; and even church members betraying one
another all because of money. The truth is that betrayal will
never give true satisfaction. Are you breaking trust and
confidence of another person because of money or other
things? You must understand that money wont make you rich;
true riches come from being godly and contented with the little
you have. Judas lost his apostolic calling and position because
of greed. Allow Gods love to grow deep in your heart.
 Birthday Blessing: Keep your lives from the love of
money and be content with what you have Heb 13:5
RBT Passage: 1 Kings 19-20
The love of money is the root of all evil.  Apostle Paul
H107
Wednesday, April 17 Matthew 27: 32-44
JESUS CRUCIFIED
When they had crucified him, they divided up his cloths by
casting lots Matthew 27:35, NIV
n a small village stood a chapel upon whose arc was
inscribed the words, we preach Christ crucified. For years
godly men preached there and presented a crucified
Saviour as the only means of salvation. But as those
generation of godly preachers passed, there arose a
generation who considered the cross and its message the
gospel of the shambles, and so changed the inscription to
we preach Christ. Todays passage presents the dramatic
story of how Jesus was crucified. His crucifixion was one of the
three vital components that make up our redemption story (1
Corinthians 15:1-3). His death on the cross was necessary for
the restoration of all we lost at the Fall in the Garden of Eden.
The death of Jesus was a watershed in human history.
Through His death we were cut off from our ugly past of disease, dis-harmony, dis-appointment, dis-comfort, discouragment, dis-ability, dis-location and all other catabolic
emotions, using the words of Gerald Rowland. However, to
enjoy the fullness of what His death brought for humanity,
there is need to receive Him as Lord and Saviour. Have you
made Christ the Lord of your life or you are still despising
Him like the religious leaders of His days? Will you like to
submit to His lordship today so that you can enjoy the
fullness of the redemption package?
 Birthday Blessing: Praise be to the God who has blessed
us with every spiritual blessing in Christ Ephesians 1:3
RBT Passage: 1 Kings 21-22
The reason for His cross is for the restoration of human
dignity.  Myles Munroe
I108
Thursday, April 18 Matthew 27:62-66
GUARDS SECURE THE TOMB
Go, make the tomb as secure as you know how
Matthew 27: 65
community was concerned about the incessant visit
of robbers into their area. On several occasions in
broad daylight while everyone would have gone out,
their houses would be burgled. So, they decided to engage
security guards to watch over the community while
everybody is away. Unfortunately, this effort did not yield
the desire result because robbers still came around to
perpetuate the same thing. This time around they broke
into the community chairmans house from the back and
carted away valuables while the guards were outside the
same building talking. This shows that ultimate security
belongs to God.
Todays passage reveals the desperate efforts the
Jewish leaders made to prevent the resurrection of Jesus.
Jesus had made it clear while He was alive that He would
rise the third day. They did not want this to happen so as to
invalidate the prophecy of the Scriptures. To this effect,
Pilate gave them the permission and so the tomb was made
secured with a seal (Matthew. 27:66). Unfortunately, this
could not prevent the resurrection from taking place
because the word of God could not be chained (2 Timothy.
2:9). Are you feeling like you have come to a dead end in
your life, academic and career? The good news for you
today is that it cannot be over with Jesus.
 Birthday Blessing: See, I am doing a new thing! Now it
springs up, do you not perceive it? (Isaiah 43:19)
RBT Passage: 2 Kings 1-3
For no word from God will ever fail.  The Bible
A109
Friday, April 19 John 20:11-18
MARY MEETS JESUS OUTSIDE THE TOMB
Mary Magdalene went to the disciples with the news: I
have seen the Lord! John 20:18
imothy was an undergraduate in a particular year in
the 90s in one of the Nigerian universities. He was
admitted at the age of 16, but he was not matured
enough to cope with the pressures of university and so he
was always looking forward to his elder sister's visit. On this
particular weekend, his sister was delayed in coming, so
Timothy had to stay at the bus station for several hours
waiting expectantly. At a point when it appeared the sister
would not be coming, he started crying profusely that many
passing by could not believe he was an undergraduate.
Obviously, Timothy was longing for affection.
Todays passage x-rays the depth of affection Mary
Magdalene had for Jesus. She had experienced a miraculous
intervention from Jesus when she got delivered from demonic
possession. She was also one of the women who provided for
Jesus from their substances for His public ministry. Even in death,
she still demonstrated her passion for the Lord so much that while
other disciples went away to their homes, she stood outside the
tomb weeping, hoping to see the resurrected Lord. How is your
love for Jesus? Are you expectant of his second coming? Are you
always ready to identify with his death and resurrection in the
public? Renew your commitment for the Lord today.
 Birthday Blessing: May the GOD of hope fill you with all joy
and peace as you trust in him, so that you may overflow
with hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. Romans 15:13
RBT Passage: 2 Kings 4-5
God works where theres an attitude of faith.
 Joel Osteen
T110
Saturday, April 20 Revelation 20:1-6
REIGNING TRIUMPHANT WITH CHRIST
Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first
resurrection. Over such the second death has no power
and shall reign with Him a thousand years Rev 20: 6
ick Warren once remarked that life is a trust, life is a
test and life is a temporary assignment. This suggests
that as Christians we must cultivate the pilgrim
mentality of detachment and travellers utilitarian philosophy
concerning the things of this world. In other words, we must
live with eternity in view with the hope of reigning with Christ
because our sojourn here is temporary. A time comes when
the saints will experience resurrection and stand before God
to receive their reward. This is the thrust of todays passage
which describes the joy the saints would experience with
Christ particularly those who endured till the end.
The issue of eternity is not obscured in the Bible. The Bible
teaches that this life is preparation for the next. Life on earth is just
a dress rehearsal before the real production. To make the most of
life therefore, demands that the vision and value of eternity is kept
continually in mind. One of such visions is the joy of reigning with
Christ on the last day. Are you waiting expectantly for the blessed
appearance of our great God and saviour who will transform our
lowly body that it may be conformed to His glorious body
(Philippians 3:20-21)? Are you already losing hope in Christ
because of the temporary suffering you are going through?
Remember the exhortation of Paul in Romans 8:18.
 Birthday Blessing: And we know that all things work
together for good to those who love God Romans 8:28
RBT Passage: 2 Kings 6-8
Surely God would not have createdman to exist only for
a dayman was made for immortality.  Abraham Lincoln
R111
Sunday, April 21 Matthew 28:1-15
"MEET ME IN GALILEE!"
Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and tell My
brethren to go to Galilee, and there they will see Me
Matthew 28:10, NKJV
story was told of a man who died somewhere in the
southwest and left an uncompleted building. Surprisingly,
after two years some men who claimed they were living
with this man in Kano State came to the village and said the
man had asked them to help him complete the building. The
villagers were taken aback explaining to the visitors that the
man had died two years before. They were shocked and decided
to return to Kano to unravel this mystery. Unfortunately, on
getting home, the man had vacated the residence.
Todays passage helps us to understand that Jesus
resurrection was validated with undeniable proofs. The Jews of
that day had a belief that the soul of the departed hovers over the
tomb for several days after death. If Jesus meets the disciples in
Galilee, then there would be no suspicion that the postresurrection appearances were of this kind. Also, it is to invalidate
the claims of the guards that His body was stolen (Matthew
28:11-13). Obviously, there are still many today who consider the
biblical story of resurrection as a myth. What is your own position?
Do you have a witness of the risen Christ in you? Can you hold
your conviction against all manner of contemporary philosophies
going around? May the Lord shine His light in your heart!
 Birthday Blessing: Those who trusts in the Lord are
like Mount Zion, which cannot be moved, but abides
forever Psalm 125:1.
RBT Passage: 2 Kings 9-10
All I have seen teaches me to trust the Creator for all I have
not seen. -- Ralph Waldo Emerson
A112
Monday, April 22 Isaiah 2:1-4
PLACE OF RENEWAL
Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the
temple of the God of Jacob. He will teach us his ways
Isaiah 2:2, NIV
ave you heard the word ecclesia before? It actually
means the assembly of the called out ones. In its strict
sense, it means a political assembly of citizens of ancient
Greek states. So, ecclesia is a political or diplomatic word which
describes a group of people with a diplomatic or governmental
backing. This means the Church could be referred to as a
diplomatic centre of Gods kingdom on earth; the Church is
Gods embassy on earth. In our passage for today, Isaiah saw a
vision of the pivotal place and role the Church of God would
occupy in the last day. He saw that men would stream to the
Church to seek instructions from the God of heaven.
Through the Church, God wants His will, counsel, culture,
and influence to be made known so much that the kingdom
of this world would eventually become the Kingdom of our
God and of His Son. He wants His knowledge to fill the earth
as waters cover the sea. For this to happen, God designed
His own leadership concept that will produce leaders over His
church, which will understand His mind and express the
same to His people, such that his people would be
empowered to exercise Kingdom dominion on earth. Are you
committed to your local church? Do you seek God sincerely in
your church or you go elsewhere for help?
 Birthday Blessing: The righteous will flourish like a
palm tree, they will grow like a cedar in Lebanon
Psalm 92:12
RBT Passage: 2 Kings 11-13
Service is the pathway to real significance. Anonymous
H113
Tuesday, April 23 1 Cor 12:12-13; Colossians 3:12-17
BODY BUILDING FOR BAPTISED BELIEVERS
For we were all baptized by one Spirit so as to form one
body  whether Jews or Gentiles, slave or free  and we
were all given the one Spirit to drink 1 Corinthians 12:13
.S. Lewis once wrote an essay on church membership,
reminding us that the word membership is of Christian
origin, but it has been taken over by the world and
emptied of all its original meaning. Today, most people associate
the term membership with paying dues, meaningless rituals, silly
rules, handshakes, and having your name on some dusty roll.
Paul however, insists that being a member of the Church meant
becoming a vital organ of a living body and baptism is an
important symbolic representation of such.
A church is a place to belong where you are connected
to other believers. Your place in the body of Christ is very
significant and God wants you to maximize your place in it.
A church family provides you platform for growth and a
place to learn how to get along with other believers. As a
participating member you learn to care about others and
share the experiences of others. That is why Paul
admonishes that each of us should strive to be filled with
Gods Word so that we can encourage other believers from
the overflow of Gods resources in us (Colossian 3:16). Are
you maximising your place in the body of Christ? Do you
value other members of the body of Christ? Let today mark
the beginning of a fresh commitment to your local church.
 Birthday Blessing: He gives strength to the weary and
increases the power of the weak Isaiah 40:29.
RBT Passage: 2 Kings 14-16
The church will outlive this universe, and so will your role
in it.  Rick Warren
C114
Wednesday, April 24 Acts 16:11-15
LYDIA AND HOUSEHOLD BAPTISED
One of those listening was a woman from the city of
Thyatira named LydiaShe was a worshiper of God.
Acts 16:14, NIV
esterday, we explored the significance of belonging to
the body of Christ. We concluded that each of us is
formed to belong to Gods family. In school, you were
part of a student body. Elected political leaders form
legislative bodies. Now, you are a part of a significant part of
God's body. When God calls the Church "the body of Christ,"
He has a human body in mind where every part is
interconnected and interdependent. In todays passage, we
see Lydia and her household incorporated into the body of
Christ through baptism after responding to the message of
salvation preached by Paul (Acts 16:14). This means that
those to be baptised must have first experienced a new birth.
It is also noteworthy that Lydia immediately showed
hospitality. She persuaded Paul and the team members to
consider staying in her house (Acts 16:15). She showed an
example of how believers should serve the body of Christ. It is
important for every Christian to know that in heaven, we are going
to serve God forever. Right now, we can prepare for that eternal
service by practicing it on earth. Have you experienced a genuine
salvation? If so, are you demonstrating it by genuinely serving the
body of Christ? Is your home open for use by the Lord? Think on
these things today and make a fresh commitment.
 Birthday Blessing: The Lord will surely comfort Zion
and will look with compassion on all her ruins Isa 51:3
RBT Passage: 2 Kings 17-18
You will never know what you are good at until you try
 Zig Ziglar
Y115
Thursday, April 25 Acts 16:25-34
JAILER AND HOUSEHOLD BAPTISED
Then immediately he and all his households were
baptized Acts 16:33, NIV
he gospel remains the power of God for the salvation
of mankind according to Romans 1:16. Todays
passage shows us how Paul and Silas refused to be
deterred by the chains on their hands and legs from sharing
the gospel in the dark dungeon of the prison. Through this
singular act, Gods message of salvation came to the jailer.
Seeing the miraculous intervention of God in breaking loose
the shackles on Pauls legs and hands, he requested, Sirs,
what must I do to be saved? Paul gave him the condition
for salvation: Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be
saved (Acts 16:31). The jailer did not only believed, he
brought his entire household to salvation and they were all
baptised.
Baptism is the open declaration of the internal
experience of salvation; it is a way of declaring to the public
that we are no longer serving the world; that we have
shifted allegiance to a new Master, Jesus Christ. There are
several people who are yet to identify with Jesus through
the process of baptism. The church must give opportunity
for such people to do that. We must visit prisons, hotels and
hospitals with the purpose of sharing the gospel of peace.
This is one of the ways of helping people to share the joy of
salvation as the jailer did (Acts 16:34).
 Birthday Blessing: It is God who arms with strength
and keep my way secure Psalm 18:32
RBT Passage: 2 Kings 19-21
Character is never built in a classroom; it is built in the
circumstances of life.  Anonymous
T116
Friday, April 26 Acts 18:5-11
REACHING NEW PEOPLE
One night the Lord spoke to Paul in a vision: Do not be
afraid; keep on speaking, do not be silent Acts 18:9, NIV
he commission Jesus gave to the Church was very clear
and simple: Go, therefore, and make disciples of all the
nations (that is, of all ethnic groups)... (Matthew 28:19
Paraphrased). Unfortunately, this commission has been
misunderstood and wrongly executed by the Church. The Church
has unconsciously conceded some lands to the devil and
ignorantly confined believers to the four walls of the church,
while our society continues to grow in ungodliness and all forms
of misdemeanour. Until the Church understands the thrust of
the great commission and passionately commit itself to its
fulfilment, there will continue to be perversions in our land.
Todays passage shows us how Paul committed himself to
the spread of the gospel even when he was opposed. He stayed
in Corinth for one year, six months preaching and teaching Gods
Word. The thrust of the Great Commission is the transformation
of nations. Anything short of this is complete aberration and
perversion of Gods purpose for the Church. The implication of
this is that the Churchs ministries must influence the society.
God expect the Church to preserve the society from decay and at
the same time set the pace for godly values; the Church is to
give directions for others to follow in good things. What will be
your own contribution in expanding the kingdom here on earth?
Have you located your own mission field?
 Birthday Blessing:That person is like a tree planted by
streams of water, which yields its fruit in season Ps 1:3
RBT Passage: 2 Kings 22-23
There is no one-size-fits-all approach to fishing. You must
know what you are fishing for.  John Piper
T117
Saturday, April 27 Acts 1:12-17, 21-26
MATTHIAS CHOSEN TO REPLACE JUDAS
Then they cast lots, and the lot fell to Matthias; so he was
added to the eleven apostles Acts 1:26, NIV
ts a popular saying that No one is indispensable. We
studied two weeks ago how Judas lost his apostolic
position because of his love for money. He traded his
anointing and calling for thirty pieces of silver when he
betrayed his Master, Jesus. He was meant to be part of the
twelve disciples earlier chosen by Jesus to propagate the
gospel around the world after His ascension; but he lost this
great calling and ended his life in disgrace. Todays passage
explains how his noble position was replaced with Matthias.
It is important to know that Matthias had also been a
consistent follower of the Lord Jesus (Acts 1:21).
Todays lesson teaches us to cherish whatever God has
committed to our hands and be faithful in its discharge.
Judas preferred worldly gains to godliness and so he lost
his place to Matthias who remained tenacious in his walk
with God. It also reminds us that we should not lobby for
position in the body of Christ; when the right time comes
and we are found worthy we shall be called upon for higher
service. Are you faithful in the assignment God has
committed into your hands? Are you not taking the grace of
God in vain? Remember that God is a rewarder of those
that diligently seek Him.
 Birthday Blessing: Surely, Lord, you bless the
righteous, you surround them with your favor as with a
shield Psalm 5:12
RBT Passage: 2 Kings 24-25
Jesus came that we might receive the full right of sons.
 Myles Munroe
I118
Sunday, April 28 Matthew 28:16-20; Acts 1:6-8
DISCIPLES CALLED AND COMMISSIONED
Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing
them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the
Holy Spirit Matthew 28:19
ick Warren once remarked: A Great Commitment to
the Great Commandment and the Great Commission
will grow a Great Church. The great commandment
is to love the Lord with all of our soul, mind and heart as
well as our neighbours, while the Great Commission is to go
to the entire world to win souls for Jesus. The disciples were
faithful to this calling in their days; they preached the
gospel right from Jerusalem to Samaria and to every part of
their own world. They made disciples and planted vibrant
churches. They demonstrated the power of the Holy Spirit in
spreading the gospel as well as healing the sick and raising
the dead.
We must emulate the early disciples of Jesus. We must
lift up our eyes and see the field already white for harvest.
Every society is made up of seven spheres: spiritual, social,
business, education, sport, entertainment, and education;
these are the fields the Church must make her relevance
felt and as much as possible set the pace and take the lead
in all of them. As a disciple of Jesus, have you identified
your own field of harvest? In what way do you want to
deploy your gift and talent in spreading the gospel of the
kingdom?
 Birthday Blessing: Blessed is the man who walks not
in the counsel of the ungodly Psalm 1:1a.
RBT Passage: 1 Chronicles 1-2
You were saved to serve.  Anonymous
R119
Monday, April 29 Ecclesiastes 3:9-17
GOD-GIVEN TASK FOR WORKERS
I know that there is nothing better for people than to be
happy and to do good while they live (Ecclesiastes 3:12)
atthew Henry said, It ought to be the business of
every day to prepare for our final day. This means
there is more to life than just here and now. In
todays passage, King Solomon posses a question: what
do workers gain from their toil?" His immediate response
was this: I know that there is nothing better for people
than to be happy and to do good while they live (v 12). But
he quickly added that, God will bring into judgment both
the righteous and the wicked, for there will be a time for
every activity and a time to judge every deed (v 17). This
implies that to make the most of your life, you must keep
the vision of eternity continually in your mind and the value
of it in your heart.
Are you living in the light of eternity? Are you making
your life count for God? Do you know that God keeps the
record of each of your daily activities and that you will
account for it on the Day of Judgment? You can begin to be
more thoughtful about the things you do beginning from
today. The reason being that one day your heart will stop
beating. That will be the end of your body and your time on
earth, but it will not be the end of you.
 Birthday Blessing: May he give you the desire of your
heart and make all your plans succeed Psalm 20:4.
RBT Passage: 1 Chronicles 3-4
Curiosity is the wick in the candle of learning.
 William A. Ward
M120
Tuesday, April 30 John 10:11-18
THE SHEPHERD LAYS DOWN HIS LIFE
I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his
life for the sheep. John 10:11, NIV
ll through the Old Testament we find shepherd: Abel,
Abraham, Moses, and David are some prominent ones
that come readily to mind. God, knowing that people
were familiar with shepherding and sheep and seeing that
their survival was dependent on these animals, used
shepherd/sheep as an understandable illustration for
communicating His truth. Jesus made an affirmative
statement in todays passage that He is a good shepherd.
What made Jesus to qualify as a Good Shepherd? Typically, a
shepherd does three major things for the sheep: he provides
food for the sheep, protects the sheep against wolfs (and if
need be die for the sheep in the process), and he guides the
sheep in the right path. Obviously, Jesus fulfils and performs
these three roles as reflected in todays passage.
There is no doubt that human beings are in need of the
three things mentioned above. The good news is that Jesus
is available to provide them all. If you have secured a
relationship with Him through a new birth process, then you
are qualified to enjoy all these because you are His sheep.
If you have not entered into a relationship with Him, then
you are one of the sheep outside the fold that must be
brought in so that you can also have access to the green
pasture. You can do that today!
 Birthday Blessing: The Lord is my Shepherd, I lack
nothing Psalm 23:1
RBT Passage: 1 Chronicles 5-6
He who is afraid to ask is ashamed of learning.
 Danish Proverb
A121
Wednesday, May 1 Romans 7:712
THE VALUE OF THE LAW
So then, the law is holy, and the commandment is holy,
righteous and good.Romans 7:12, NIV
magine living in a country without a law. No regulations;
drivers can park their vehicles anywhere, drive without any
form of caution, and on any side of the road. Teachers,
nurses, engineer, police, doctors are free to get to work
anytime they wish and do as they like, or not show up at all.
By the way, will there even be any professional in such a
country? I doubt; unless they are trained in another country.
Even if any of these professionals exist, what a chaotic,
uncertain, disastrous and unsafe country that will be.
Likewise, without the law, everyone will remain in their mess
without knowing it. There can be no spiritual discernment.
The Law was given to create the awareness of things
that are sinful; things that are not acceptable to God.
However, it also created the consciousness of sin and this
leads to death. Therefore, the death sentence due to sin,
should prompt everyone who wants to live to seek Jesus,
the Source of life. In John 11:25 Jesus said, I am the
resurrection and the life. The one who believes in me will
live, even though they die. By Faith in Christ, we have the
power to walk blameless before God and exchange death
for eternal life. Abide in Christ so that you can live
peacefully with God and man.
 Birthday Blessing: You shall have great peace, and
nothing shall make you stumble. Psalm 119:165
RBT Passage: 1 Chronicles 7-9
Dont ever try arguing with the Devil. He is better at arguing
than you are, having had thousands of years to practice.
 Rick Warren
I122
Thursday, May 2 Galatians 3:1929
THE PURPOSE OF THE LAW
So the law was our guardian until Christ came that we
might be justified by faith.Galatians 3:24 (NIV)
young girl after sweeping the room, went to the
window shade and hastily drew it down, saying, "It
makes the room so dusty to have the sunshine
coming in." She foolishly imagined that it was the sunshine
that made the dust whereas it only revealed it.
Like the young lady, many of us often fail to realize that
the Law, like the sunshine, reveals the filths in us. It doesnt
create them. The Law is like an eye opener to our depraved
state. This should set everyone in search for help. The
revelation of the only begotten Son of God is the only help
that we have got. Every mediator prior to the revelation of
Christ Jesus was unable to bring deliverance. We were all
held under the burden of our sins. The only source of
liberation is faith in Jesus Christ. By accepting Christ as our
Lord and master, we have the garment of sin removed and
we get clothed with the nature of Christ. This only comes
when we put our faith in Him (Jesus Christ). This is
regardless of gender or race  for we are all one in Christ
Jesus. Have you surrendered your life to Him? You will be
free from the burden of sin if you do.
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD will remove from you
scorn and contempt. Psalm 119: 22
RBT Passage: 1 Chronicles 10-12
"When life gets too hard to stand, kneel."  Anonymous
A123
Friday, May 3 Romans 3: 18
GOD IS FAITHFUL AND FAIR
What if some were unfaithful? Will their unfaithfulness
nullify Gods faithfulness? Not at all! Let God be true, and
every human being a liar.Romans 3:3-4a, NIV
young man who presented himself as a candidate for
baptism was asked by one of the deacons when he
found Christ as his Savior. "I didn't find Him; He found
me," was the reply. That's absolutely correct. God is
constantly seeking the wandering sinner, confronting him
with the cross of Christ at every turn.
The response of this young man aptly recognizes Gods
fairness and faithfulness in seeking for the lost. Today's passage
places emphasis on the faithfulness and righteousness of God
irrespective of man's action. The sinfulness of man cannot
reduce the righteousness or faithfulness of God, in fact, man's
weakness makes God's strength more evident. It doesnt matter
what our states are when God finds us. Whether a church
member, morally fitting, depraved, wicked, Muslim etc, it really
does not matter to God. He is and can use everything for the
advancement of His kingdom and for your blessing to achieve
His purpose in your life. All He needs is for you to accept His
invitation. It is not your effort but His  yours is to respond.
Indeed there is nothing we can do to add to our righteousness.
Our path is to just follow our master and Lord Jesus Christ and
believe everything He has said concerning us because everyman
can be a lair, but God will always be true. Will you follow Him?
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD will rescue you from
oppression and violence. Proverb 72:14
RBT Passage: 1 Chronicles 13-16
"The giant in front of you is never bigger than the God
inside of you."  Anonymous
A124
Saturday, May 4 Romans 3:920
JESUS BRINGS TRUE JUSTICE
All have turned away, they have together become
worthless; there is no one who does good, not even one.
Romans 3:12, NIV
ichard Nixon famously resigned from office in August
1974 amid accusations of malfeasance related to the
Watergate scandal. But while there was a possibility that
Nixon could have been prosecuted and even jailed, he was
granted a full pardon by new President Gerald Ford only weeks
after stepping down. Fords offer of clemency came before Nixon
had officially been charged with any misdeeds, and covered all
federal crimes the former president had committed or may
have committed or taken part in during his terms in office.
We were all guilty under the law and no one could be
declared righteous. We were under the sentence of death. Our
sins including neglecting our Maker, failure to consistently do
good, deceit (lying), speaking hurtful words, bitterness, cursing,
cheating, stealing, being violent, bloodshed, destroying others,
hopelessness and lack of trust in God. Under the law, anyone
guilty of one of these is guilty of all. But Christ intervened for all
those who come to Him and cleave to Him. He took away our
condemnation, our death and all the sins we have and would
ever commit. He bought our pardon and freedom by His own
blood and declared us righteous before the Father. The best
we can do for ourselves is to accept His true justice that sets
us free. Have you given your life completely to Him?
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD GOD will give justice for
you. Luke 18:7
RBT Passage: 1 Chronicles 17-19
"Faith does not eliminate questions but faith knows where
to take them."  Elisabeth Elliot
R125
Sunday, May 5 Romans 3: 2131
ALL CALLED TO RIGHTEOUSNESS
This righteousness is given through faith in Jesus Christ to
all who believe. There is no difference between Jew and
Gentile. Romans 3:22, NIV
n unbeliever once ridiculed the power of the Gospel of
Jesus Christ by saying, "If Jesus Christ is able to save
to the uttermost, why is it that there are so many
unbelievers?" The Christian to whom he was speaking
stopped a very dirty little boy who was passing by and
turning to the unbeliever said, "Can you blame soap and
water for the filth of this boy?" It was available to all, but
only those who accept it experience its regenerating power.
Just like this little boy, everyone is guilty of sin and has been
condemned to death, but God sacrificed Jesus Christ as
atonement for the sin of everyone who will accept Him through
faith. This generous act of God made salvation available for
everyone, but only those that believe will be given access to this
package. Every provision for your righteousness has been made
by God, you need nothing but continued faith in the Lord Jesus
Christ. Christ is able to save everyone who accepts Gods
provision in Him. This is regardless of tribal or cultural
background and family lineage, circumcision or uncircumcision,
Jew or Gentile. Christ's sacrifice is a complete package and it
does not need the help of any man for salvation. Accept His
atoning blood and follow His path as you know Him in His words.
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD will fill your mouth with
laughter and your lips with shouts of joy. Job 8:21
RBT Passage: 1 Chronicles 20-23
Without a heart transformed by the grace of Christ, we
just continue to manage internal and external darkness.
Matt Chandler
A126
Monday, May 6 John 5:1924
BELIEVERS IN JESUS HAVE ETERNAL LIFE
Very truly I tell you, whoever hears my word and believes
him who sent me has eternal life and will not be judged but
has crossed over from death to life John5:24, NIV
wo young men were talking about the cost of following
Jesus. One of them said, "I cannot tell you all that the
Lord Jesus is to me, or what He has done for me. I do
wish you would enlist in His army." "I'm thinking about it,"
answered the other young man, "but it means giving up
several thingsin fact, I am counting the cost." A Christian
officer, passing by, heard the last remark, and laying his
hand on the shoulder of the young soldier said, "Young
man, you talk of counting the cost of following Christ, but
have you ever counted the cost of not following Him?"
It is impossible to cross from death to life without
following Jesus Christ. Many people hesitate to begin the
journey with Christ because of what they think Christ will
take from them without thinking of what He will give to
them. We are reminded today that all judgments have been
committed to Christ and so, no one can escape Jesus. Only
those who believe in Christ and obey His Words will have
eternal life. Therefore, where you will spend your eternity
depends on whether you hear and believe in Him or not. If
you do not have a relationship with Him you can begin
today.
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD will grant peace in your
land, and you will lie down and no one will make you
afraid. Leviticus 26:6
RBT Passage: 1 Chronicles 24-26
"Grace isnt just forgiveness, it is forgiveness fueled by
surrender." Amy E. Spiegel
T127
Tuesday, May 7 Galatians 4:17
SPIRIT OF CHRIST IN OUR HEARTS
Because you are his sons, God sent the Spirit of his
Son into our hearts, the Spirit who calls out, Abba Father.
Galatians 4:6, NIV
enjamin West, the great painter, speaking of Gilbert
Stuart, a brother artist famed for his beautiful
colouring, used to say to his pupils, "It's no use to
steal Stuart's colours; if you want to paint as he does, you
must steal his eyes."
When we are baffled in our efforts to live as Christ lived,
the record of His life, however wonderful it is, will not
enable us to be like Him. What we need is His heart and His
nature. Humans lost the nature and presence of God after
falling for Satan's deceit in the Garden of Eden. This made
it difficult for man to relate with God because God relates
with us through His Spirit in us. That is why Jesus said, God
is Spirit and those who will worship Him must worship in
Spirit and in truth. It is the Holy Spirit that gives us access
into the presence of God and also bears witness in our
hearts that we are children of God. Only divinity within us
can express divinity without. Without the Holy Spirit, we
cannot know Him as God. No Christian can truly grow to
maturity unless he/she is indwelt by the Holy Spirit. To
manifest the nature of God, every believer must therefore
seek to be filled and led by the Holy Spirit.
 Birthday Blessing: Instead of your shame you will
receive a double portion, and instead of disgrace you
will rejoice in your inheritance. Isaiah 61:7
RBT Passage: 1 Chronicles 27-29
"God created it. Jesus died for it. The Spirit lives in it. Id
better take care of it."  Rick Warren
B128
Wednesday, May 8 1 Corinthians 15:1228
THE RESURRECTION OF THE DEAD
For if the dead are not raised, then Christ has not been
raised either. 1 Corinthians 15:16, NIV
servant who had received a silver cup from his master
accidentally dropped it into a vat of acid. The servant
was dumbfounded when he saw the whole cup
disappear. He immediately went to a fellow servant and told
him that the silver cup was lost forever. "It can't be recovered.
You can't even see it." The master, an educated man, came on
the scene. He infused salt water into the acid and precipitated
the silver from the solution. Then by melting it and hammering
the metal, he restored the cup to its original shape.
Many still find it difficult to come to terms with the
veracity of the hope of resurrection today. To such people,
Paul aptly refers to the evidence of resurrection within and
around them. The forsaking of old nature and putting on the
nature of Christ should guarantee every believer that
he/she will be resurrected with Christ. Disputing the validity
of resurrection is to equate God to ourselves in knowledge,
power and wisdom or to doubt the existence of God entirely.
That Christ is raised from the dead to glory is an assurance
that those who believe to the end will also be raised into
glory. Be assured that the power that raised Christ from the
dead is able to give life to you and everything that is yours if
you will only believe.
 Birthday Blessing: You will speak of the LORD statutes
before kings and will not be put to shame. Psalm
119:46
RBT Passage: 2 Chronicles 1-4
"God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in
Him."  John Piper
A129
Thursday, May 9 2 Corinthians 5:1621
SEEING OTHERS THROUGH CHRIST
Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, the new creation has
come: The old has gone, the new is here!
2 Corinthians 5:17, NIV
r Guthrie, attending a school gathering in a slum
area, followed a speaker who had referred to poor
neglected children as "the scum of society." This
roused the indignation of Dr. Guthrie. Taking a clean sheet
of paper and holding it up, he said, "Yes, this was the scum
of society once, only filthy rags, but they can be cleansed
and made into spotless white paper on which you may write
the name of God." So it is with a believer in Christ.
Two hallmarks of those in Christ which is lacking outside
Christ are forgiveness of their sins and clothing with a new
nature. The problem of the world and the Church today is
that too many are not in Christ Jesus. The only way to
transform our world is to bring and nurture everyone who
has not known Christ, not only to come to Him but to also
abide in Him. However, this cannot be achieved unless
everyone who claim to be a Christian live like Christ in
conduct, conversation, purity, love and righteousness. You
are called to be an ambassador of Christ. Are you in Him?
How have you been representing Christ? Be Christ image
today and always.
 Birthday Blessing: Your joy will be complete. John
15:11
RBT Passage: 2 Chronicles 5-7
"Dont shine so others can see you, shine so that through
you others can see Him."  Anonymous
D130
Friday, May 10 Romans 8:1825
EAGER LONGING
Not only so, but we ourselves, who have the first fruits of
the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for our
adoption to sonship....Romans 8: 23, NIV
servant whose master and mistress were away was
uncertain when they would return. A friend visited her
and feeling rather tired went in to rest. When she got
up she saw that the servant had gone to all kinds of trouble
to lay the table for tea as if her master and mistress were
coming home that hour. She questioned the servant
whether the master and mistress were coming home that
day, but her friend answered, "I have not heard, but as the
time is uncertain, I always have everything ready each day."
What a lesson this is for Christiansto have everything
ready every day and every hour of the day.
Paul described the glory that will attend our victory. To
make the occasion grand, God has put every other creation
in subjection, and so they are waiting with eager
expectation of our revelation. It will be an occasion for all
creation to be liberated from decay. For them, it is a time of
eager expectation. For us, it is a time of adoption and
redemption of our bodies from everything that destroys. Our
eager longing should therefore be characterized by
preparedness at all times to meet Him when He comes or
call. How prepared are you?
 Birthday Blessing: If you are willing and obedient, you
will eat the good things of the land Isaiah 1:19.
RBT Passage: 2 Chronicles 8-11
"The only way by which we can grow nearer and nearer to
our Lord is by steadfastly keeping beside Him."
Alexander Maclaren
A131
Saturday, May 11 Romans 8:26-30
SUSTAINED AND LED BY THE SPIRIT
In the same way, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. We
do not know what we ought to pray for, but the
Spirit himself intercedes for us through wordless
groans.Romans 8:26, NIV
magine a glove without a hand in it, what can it do?
Nothing! But when human hand is in it, the glove can do
many things. True, it is not the glove, but human hand in
the glove that acts. Picture the Christian as a glove and the
Holy Spirit in us, as the hand who does the work.
We are created for a purpose, but the flesh made us
weak for this purpose. Every child of God therefore needs to
be filled with the Holy Spirit to achieve his or her purpose.
The Holy Spirit gives strength and helps the Christian to
pray effectively and correctly according to Gods will. He
helps us to be moulded into Christ's image. He guarantees
our justification and glorification. We must therefore,
recognize His role in our lives in such a way that we do not
grieve Him but commune with and trust Him. The power of
the Holy Spirit is made manifest in our lives when we yield
ourselves to Him. Without the Holy Spirit it is impossible to
live a victorious Christian life. Make a practice of receiving
from the Holy Spirit for your daily living and you will find
yourself fulfilling your purpose in life.
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD will make you very fruitful;
HE will make nations of you, and kings will come from
you. Genesis 17:6
RBT Passage: 2 Chronicles 12-16
"Your mind is a powerful thing. When you fill it with positive
thoughts, your life will start to change." Anonymous
I132
Sunday, May 12 Romans 8:1-14
NO CONDEMNATION IN CHRIST JESUS
Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who
are in Christ Jesus. Romans 8:1, NIV
hen we consider the issue of condemnation, the
story that easily comes to mind is that of the
prostitute that was brought to Jesus for judgement.
It is true that she has violated the Law of Moses but it is
also true that she was willing to trust Jesus. She was not
ashamed to be judged by Jesus. Seeing this level of trust
and openness, Jesus chose not to condemn her.
Either of two laws is operational in the life of every
individual; the law of the Spirit in those who are in Christ
Jesus or the law of the sin and death in those without
Christ. The law of sin and death is powerless; it only reflects
sin but cannot take away sin. The law of the Spirit helps the
believer to live above sin, in that Jesus Christ was sacrificed
to condemn both sin and flesh to meet Gods requirement
of righteousness and life. To live without condemnation is
to accept the perfect work Christ has done on our behalf
and stay faithful to Him. Those who are in Christ give
attention to what is pleasing to God but those without Christ
cant. Do you indulge in self-gratification? If you still indulge
in the deeds of the flesh, you need Christ.
 Birthday Blessing: Do not be afraid; you will not suffer
shame. Do not fear disgrace; you will not be
humiliated. You will forget the shame of your
youth..Isaiah 54:4
RBT Passage: 2 Chronicles 17-20
"We need not look to others for recognition and praise; we
can take heart that God knows when we are faithful in
serving Him." Leslie Koh
W133
Monday, May 13 Romans 9:1- 5, 1417
THE HERITAGE KEEPERS
. Theirs is the adoption to sonship; theirs the divine
glory, the covenants, the receiving of the law, the temple
worship and the promises. Romans 9:4, NIV
etting up from bed after a night of rest, ability to walk
around, sit, talk, eat and enjoy many other health
benefits are not often valued when everything is fine
with us. We simply take those things for granted because we
have them. We become too familiar with them that we dont
seem to value them until we lose one or more of them.
Many of us born into Christian families have become too
familiar with the things of God that we often dont pay close
attention to our heritage in God. For people in this kind of state,
Apostle Paul expresses great sorrow and great anguish of heart
when he considered the benefits such people were throwing
away; adoption as sons, divine glory, the law, worshiping God in
the temple and the promises. The mercy and compassion of
God are always available to anyone who will draw from them
regardless of the past. If you value your heritage of knowing
Christ and being members of Gods family, you will preserve your
salvation by doing things that bring pleasure to God and care
about the salvation of those who are backsliding by reminding
them of the heritage they have in Christ. We must constantly
remind ourselves of the gifts we have in Christ and the need to
keep these gifts in every way possible.
 Birthday Blessing: You will be protected from the lash of
the tongue, and need not fear when destruction comes.
Job 5:21
RBT Passage: 2 Chronicles 21-24
"Being made in His image we have within us the capacity to
know Him."  A. W. Tozer
G134
Tuesday, May 14 Acts 13:44-49
A LIGHT FOR THE GENTILES
For this is what the Lord has commanded us: I have made
you a light for the Gentiles, that you may bring salvation to
the ends of the earth. Acts 13:47, NIV
n old sculptor had among other pieces of work in his
shop the model of a beautiful cathedral. It was
covered with dust for years, and nobody admired it,
although it was an exact model of a fine cathedral. One day
the attendant placed a light inside the model, and its gleam
shone through the beautiful stained-glass windows. Then all
stopped to admire its beauty. The change that was brought
by the light within was marvellous.
Every believer in Christ must shine the light of God for
the world to appreciate His love and come to Jesus Christ.
Who would have known that Gentiles will receive the Gospel
of Jesus Christ with such enthusiasm? Or who would have
imagined the kind of resistance put up by the Jews towards
the Gospel. The role of obedience in determining the
prosperity of our Gospel message was seen in the response
of the Jews and Gentiles to the message of Apostle Paul.
Every Christian has a duty to reveal the beauty of Christ to
those who have not recognized Jesus as their Lord and
Saviour. The task may be challenging, in fact, opposition
may come from unexpected quarters, but your obedience
will be rewarded. Start today by taking the Gospel message
to someone who has not known Christ.
 Birthday Blessing: You will look and be radiant, your
heart will throb and swell with joy... Isaiah 60:5a
RBT Passage: 2 Chronicles 25-28
"You will only be great if you devote your life and effort to
serving others."  Yemi Osinbajo
A135
Wednesday, May 15 Colossians 2:1-10
LIFE IN CHRIST JESUS
And in Christ you have been brought to fullness. He is the
head over every power and authority. Colossians 2:10, NIV
young woman asked me to tell her in a few words
how she could know if she was really a Christian. I
said: "If you are a Christian you are not afraid of the
light because you live in it. You no longer run after sin,
though it may run after you. When you belong to Christ, you
will find it difficult to sin; but when you belong to Satan you
will find it easy. You belong to the one whom you truly long
to please."
Paul exemplified a life in Christ Jesus through concern
for the welfare and spiritual development of other believers,
including people he has never met. He encouraged and
promoted love among brethren. Every Christian must avoid
being deceived by fine-sounding argument  something
very common nowadays. Believers must be rooted in faith
and discipline in Christ Jesus. It is not sufficient to just
know Jesus Christ, every believer must remain and grow in
Him. Life in Christ must be characterized by overflowing
thankfulness for the abundant provision which is in Christ.
Believers are warned against being controlled by traditions,
cultures or material forces of this world, rather than the
Word of God. What recent changes have the Word of God
brought into your life?
 Birthday Blessing:"Your prayers and gifts to the poor have
come up as a memorial offering before God. Acts 10:4
RBT Passage: 2 Chronicles 29-31
"The Christian shoemaker does his duty not by putting little
crosses on the shoe, but by making good shoes because
God is interested in good craftsmanship."  Martin Luther
A136
Thursday, May 16 Acts 20:17-24, 32
TESTIMONY OF GODS GRACE
Now I commit you to God and to the word of his grace,
which can build you up and give you an inheritance among
all those who are sanctified Acts 20:32, NIV
traveller describing an ancient volcano which he
visited, tells of a cuplike hollow on the mountain
summit full of lush vegetation, and that, where the
fierce heat had once burned, lay a still, clear pool of water,
looking up like an eye to the beautiful heavens above. How
many a man, who before conversion was a fiery deathdealing volcano of sin, has by the grace of Jesus become
gentle and beautiful, reflecting in his measure the heavenly
peace and loveliness.
The leaders of the Ephesian Church were called to
recollection of Pauls life; his humble service, his tears and
the severe opposition he faced. Despite the hazards, he did
not hesitate to preach the Word of God to them publicly and
privately. He understood the power in the Word God. Little
wonder, amidst uncertainty of ever being able to see the
leaders again, he left them in the hand of God and the
Word of Gods grace because that was what saw him
through the persecution of the Jews. He knew that only the
Grace of God could build them up and give them
inheritance among the saints. Paul was able to testify about
Gods grace because he had enjoyed it. You too can enjoy
Gods grace if you are committed to your God given task.
 Birthday Blessing: If you are willing and obedient, you
will eat the good things of the land. Isaiah 1:19
RBT Passage: 2 Chronicles 32-34
"Gods grace is immeasurable, His mercy inexhaustible, His
peace in expressible." Bill Crowder
A137
Friday, May 17 Romans 11:1-10
ISRAELS REJECTION NOT FINAL
I ask then: Did God reject his people? By no means! I am
an Israelite myself, a descendant of Abraham, from the
tribe of Benjamin. Romans 11: 1, NIV
great artist was once asked, "What's the best picture
you've ever painted?" "The next one," he replied
confidently. But another artist was heard to lament, "Too
bad I failed," though he was at the very height of his glory. "Why
do you say that?" asked a friend of his in astonishment.
"Because I've lost any hope of improvement," he said. He was
right; the person who has stopped hoping has truly failed.
The gate of salvation is always open for those who will
take advantage of it. Salvation cannot be attained by work,
because no work can attain its requirement. One must
depend on God to meet the requirement. That is called
grace. God has not rejected anyone and will not reject
anyone who turns to Him for salvation through Jesus Christ.
The choice is however that of humans to make. Have you
been rebellious in time past? Your rejection is not final, the
masterpiece in you is yet to be made, and God is waiting for
its making. Because God is hopeful, you must also not give
up on the salvation of anyone. Is there anyone whose
salvation you are foreclosing? Prayerfully minister to the
person today and see what God will do. Israels rejection is
not final neither is yours!
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD will look on you with
favour and make you fruitful.... Leviticus 26:9
RBT Passage: 2 Chronicles 35-36
"Good ideas do not bring success, good hard-work does. To
release your true potential, you must be willing to work."
Myles Munroe
A138
Saturday, May 18 Romans 11:25-36
ALL PEOPLES SAVED BY FAITH
.As it is written: The deliverer will come from Zion; he
will turn godlessness away from Jacob. Romans 11:26
poor, uneducated old woman was once met by a
skeptic. "Well, you are one of the saints, are you?
What sort of folks are they? What do you know about
religion?" "Well, well," replied the old woman, "you know, sir,
I'm no scholar, so can't say much for the meaning of it; I
only know I am 'saved by grace' and that's enough to make
me happy here, and I expect to go to heaven by and by."
"Oh, that's all, is it? But, what does being saved feel like?"
The Spirit-taught woman answered, "Just as if the Lord
stood in my shoes, and I stood in His."
Paul wrote to the Romans not to allow pride becloud
their sense of Gods mercy in their salvation. Through the
persecution of the Church, the Gospel and the fellowship
was brought to the Gentiles in Gods mercy. Mercy shall be
extended to Israel also, on account of covenant faith. This
way the will of God that no sinner should perish is being
fulfilled among all. Gods purpose is that anyone who turns
to Him in faith through Jesus Christ should be saved. Have
you harnessed the gift of salvation through faith in Christ?
Be the reason the Gospel of Christ is reaching someone
today.
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD will put a new song in your
mouth, a hymn of praise to our God. Psalm 40:3
RBT Passage: Ezra 1-4
"True faith means holding nothing back, it means putting
every hope in Gods fidelity to His promises." Francis Chan
A139
Sunday, May 19 Romans 11:1124
SALVATION OF THE GENTILES
Consider therefore the kindness and sternness of God:
sternness to those who fell, but kindness to you, provided
that you continue in his kindness. Otherwise, you also will
be cut off.Romans 11:22, NIV
uring the time when slave trade was still practiced in
some parts of Southern America, a handsome young
man was up for sale. The bids kept rising. Finally, an
Englishman gained possession. The young slave began to
chide him, "Ha, you buy a slave when slavery has already
been abolished in England." The purchaser, however, said, "I
have bought you to set you free." The young slave, overcome
with emotion, replied, "I will be your willing slave forever.
Gods salvation is all inclusive. Everyone (Jew or Gentiles)
who heed the call must yield themselves to God and forsake
their sins. The passage today is a call on Gentiles to always live
with the consciousness that Gods kindness got for us the
salvation that we have. This understanding should evoke in us
humility, compassion and steadfast faith, without which we
risk being cut off from Gods grace. God is ready and will save
anyone who does not persist in unbelief. He makes us holy
only when we abide in Him. Though strangers that were grafted
in, we will be made holy and will enjoy the kindness of God if
we remain in His love. It does not matter how our lives have
been before now, all that matters is our willingness to give our
life to Christ for a complete transformation.
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD will fulfill your desires,
hear your cry and save you. Psalm 145:19
RBT Passage: Ezra 5-7
"People to whom sin is just a matter of words, to them
salvation is just a matter of word too." William Faulkner
D140
Monday, May 20 Proverbs 3:1-12
TRUST AND HONOUR GOD
Trust in the LORD with all your heart and lean not on your
own understanding Proverbs 3:5, NIV
father asked his son to carry a letter from their camp
to the village. He pointed out a trail which the lad had
never gone through before. "All right, Dad, but I don't
see how that path will ever reach the town," said the boy.
"Do you see the trail as far as the big tree down there?"
asked the father. "Oh, yes, I see that far." "Well, when you
get there by the tree, you'll see the trail a little farther
ahead, and so on until you get within sight of the houses of
the village."
Like the little boy, we want see how Gods direction will
take us to our destination before embarking. Todays text
shows five ways we should honour God and their benefits:
1) Keeping the word of God in our hearts results in long life,
peace and prosperity; 2) Love and faithfulness to God
brings favour and good name; 3) Trust in God guarantees
His direction to an honest path; 4) The fear of the Lord and
shunning evil brings good health; 5) Honoring God with our
wealth brings greater wealth. Failure to trust and honour
God will, among other things, deprive us of these blessings.
How much trust you have in the Lord is determined by how
much you honour him.
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD will strengthen you and
help you; He will uphold you with His righteous right
hand. Isaiah 41:10
RBT Passage: Ezra 8-10
"There are times when holding to our masters robe is all
that we can do. It is all that He wants us to do." Os Hilman
A141
Tuesday, May 21 1 Corinthians 13
THE GIFT OF LOVE
If I have the gift of prophecy and can fathom all
mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have a faith that can
move mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing.
1 Corinthians 13: 2, NIV
ave you ever seen a tailor place a piece of absorbent
paper over a spot of grease and press down on it with a
hot iron? Why does he do it? The heat melts the grease,
and the paper absorbs it. Real love absorbs the spots in the lives
of others, making them feel the warmth of our own hearts for
them. A careful consideration of the characteristics of love as
enumerated in vs 4 - 7, reveals that love is embodiment of Gods
nature. Without love, all other spiritual gifts cannot achieve their
purpose and revealing Christ Jesus to the unsaved, and
nurturing the body of Christ will be almost impossible.
Every believer must exhibit the gift of love to fulfil divine
purpose. Apostle Paul states clearly that love is patient, kind,
not envious, not boastful, not proud, not easily angered, not
self-seeking, keeps no record of wrongs, does not delight in evil
but rejoices in the truth. Love always protects, hopes, trusts
and perseveres. Honestly assess yourself in the light of these
character traits and determine whether you truly love as much
as you should. Strive to love more by stripping yourself of every
unwholesome nature and prayerfully imbibe those natures that
are consistent with love.
 Birthday Blessing: ...He will turn the desert into pools of
water, and the parched ground into springs for you.
Isaiah 41:18
RBT Passage: Nehemiah 1-3
"It is not love to let others have what we cannot keep."
 Beecher
H142
Wednesday, May 22 Luke 6:27-36
LIFESTYLE OF CHRISTIAN BELIEVERS
But to you who are listening I say: Love your enemies, do
good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you,
pray for those who mistreat you.Luke 6: 27-28, NIV
United States President asked a certain General a
question about another officer. Overhearing his reply
which praised the officer, a friend approached him
afterwards and said, "General, do you know that the man of
whom you spoke is one of your most bitter enemies and
misses no opportunity to malign you?" "Yes," replied the
officer, "but the President asked my opinion of him; he did
not ask for his opinion of me."
One of the most difficult Scriptures to accept in light of
our contemporary experiences is where we read today. But
we have no choice. It is a command for anyone who cares
to listen to Jesus Christ. We must love our enemies and do
good to those who hate us. As believers you are not to
make an enemy out of anyone regardless of the harm they
may be doing to you. We must be kind to people who are
wicked to us. Showing love to them is not the same as
indulging them. We must do things that will help them
spiritually and seek their ultimate good. A carnal person
cannot accept or obey this command from Jesus. The only
way out is to be spiritually minded, always walking in the
Spirit and desiring to do what God says above our own will.
 Birthday Blessing: In righteousness you will be
established: Tyranny will be far from you; you will have
nothing to fear.... Isaiah 54:14
RBT Passage: Nehemiah 4-7
"When we are abandoned to God, He works through us all
the time." Oswald Chambers
A143
Thursday, May 23 Psalm 34:1-14
SEEK PEACE AND PURSUE IT
Turn from evil and do good; seek peace and pursue it
Psalm 34:14, NIV
hen I was an undergraduate student, a Christian
roommate who loved to pray around 2.00 am daily
would wake up and pray loudly in a manner that
disturbs his other two roommates. One of them, after
praying about the situation, called this fellows attention to
the disturbance. Instead of feeling hurt and offended, he
apologized. After that time, he either leaves the room for a
corner outside the room or prays silently. What might have
developed into grudges became an evidence of good will
instead.
God wants us to live in peace with others and so we
must do our best to ensure that peace reigns where ever
we are found. A child of God, in addition to this, must keep
his/her tongue from evil and lying. These other virtues show
that seeking peace is as important as seeking holiness.
None must be compromised for the other. Whenever there
is tension between holiness and peace, we have to resort to
God in prayer. Controlling our tongues is central to living
peaceably with others. Deceit and lying or any form of evil
must never be found with us. Are you guilty of lying or evil
speaking? Turn a new leaf today and ask for forgiveness.
 Birthday Blessing: The peace of God, which
transcends all understanding, will guard your hearts
and your minds in Christ Jesus. Philippians 4:7
RBT Passage: Nehemiah 8-10
"The hope of a secure and livable world lies with disciplined
nonconformists who are dedicated to justice peace and
brotherhood." Martin Luther King Jr.
W144
Friday, May 24 Romans 12:9-15
GENUINE LOVE FOR EACH OTHER
Love must be sincere. Hate what is evil; cling to what is
good. Romans 12:9, NIV
young man spent an entire evening telling a girl how
much he loved her. He said that he could not live
without her; that he would go to the ends of the earth
for her; yes, go through fire for her, or die for her. When
asked by the lady whether he would come the following
evening, he said, "I'll see you tomorrow night if it doesn't
rain." How often we say we love God yet deny it by our
actions.
Often time, we love only in words, however, love must
also be in action. Sincere love will hate evil, cling to what is
good, honour others above self and serve the Lord. True
love comes with hope, patience and faithfulness in prayer
for the one you love. It shows understanding and is not
discriminatory. True love will make us share what we have
with others and provide help for those who are in need.
Does the love you have for others and for God pass the test
of virtues listed in the Rom 12: 9-15? If not, talk to God
about those things that are lacking and begin to make
amends today. Christ will only give the crown of life to those
who love Him in deed and in truth.
 Birthday Blessing: ...the wealth on the seas will be
brought to you, to you the riches of the nations will
come. Isaiah 60:5b
RBT Passage: Nehemiah 11-13
"To love someone means to see him as God intended him."
Fyodor Dostoevsky
A145
Saturday, May, 25 Romans 12:16-21
LIVING TOGETHER IN HARMONY
Live in harmony with one another. Do not be proud, but be
willing to associate with people of low position. Romans
12:16, NIV
ne of the most difficult things for humans to do is live
together in peace. This is because humans are different
from one another and it takes great patience and
understanding to live with another people with a completely
different character and attitude. The enemy of harmonious
living is more of character-based than religious. Pride has been
identified as one of the character errors capable of bringing
disunity in any human society. It is characterized by the
tendency to think highly of oneself. Apostle Paul called it being
unwilling to associate with people of low position. Living a
harmonious life involves exercising both spiritual and social
prudence in the way we see ourselves and deal with others.
The message today is that we must work to remove pride
and every other thing that separates us and cling to the
sincere love that binds us together. Apostle Paul appealed that
we must not be vengeful because vengeance belongs to God.
Forgiving people in advance will help you to forgive them
anytime. Is there anything in you that hinders you from living in
harmony with others? Is there any relationship you need to
mend? Do not hesitate to do the needful because your
obligation as a Christian is to follow peace with all men.
 Birthday Blessing: The Lord satisfies your desire with
good things, your days are declared blessed! Ps 103:5
RBT Passage: Esther 1-5
"We are all equal in the fact that we are all different. We are
harmonious in the reality that we are all held to this earth
by the same gravity." Joybell C.
O146
Sunday, May, 26 Romans 12:1-8
A LIVING SACRIFICE
Therefore, I urge you, brothers, in view of Gods mercy, to
offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to
God- this is your Spiritual act of worship Romans 12:1, NIV
enry Blackaby in his classic discipleship material,
Experiencing God, says When you believe that
nothing significant can happen through you, you
have said more about your belief in God than you have said
about yourself.In the Old Testament people presented
sacrifice. The Scripture records that people go to the
presence of God with various gift items such as money and
other belongings. This is done to appreciate God for
forgiving their sins and blessing them.
Our text today is a special plea towards building a more
robust relationship with God who desires that we give Him
our hearts before our material gifts. We cannot fool the
Omniscient God. Our gifts may be considered a dead
sacrifice if our lives are not soothing to God. The offering of
our bodies as a living sacrifice represents the totality of our
lives, plans and activities. It is the best act of worship we
can give unto God today. Whatever you consider too big to
offer to God may not increase and you may not get the
better of it. I urge you to be real with your Creator today as
you surrender everything to Him.
 Birthday Blessing: The favour of the Lord rests upon
you; He will prosper you in every ways. Psalm 90:17
RBT Passage: Esther 6-10
"The Highest appreciation is not to utter words but to live by
them." John F. Kennedy
H147
Monday, May, 27 Deuteronomy 16:1-8
THE PASSOVER CELEBRATION
Observe the month of Abib and celebrate the Passover of
the Lord your God Deuteronomy 16:1, NIV
he experience of October 1 1960 will never be forgotten
in the history of Nigeria. It was the day Nigeria gained
independence from British rule which was
characterized by all forms of inhumane treatments.
Celebration broke out throughout the nation; both the young
and old thanked God in various ways at their various places
of worship. There was also lots of eating and drinking to mark
this event and the day was declared a work-free day, as it is
still being practiced today to commemorate the event.
The Israelites were commanded to observe three
annual feasts: The feast of Passover and unleavened
bread, the feast of Weeks and the feast of the Tabernacles
(Exodus 23:14-17). The feast of Passover is done to
commemorate their deliverance from Egypt and to remind
them of how God in His infinite mercy saved them from the
hand of Pharaoh, the king that did not know Joseph (Exodus
1:8). How soon do we forget God after we have received the
blessings we long prayed for? The Passover celebration is a
moment to count your blessings, reflect and appreciate God
for all He has done for you. Do not let your current
unpleasant experience stop you from thanking God for what
He has done in the time past.
 Birthday Blessing: The Lord will cause everyday events
to favour you and tables shall be turned in your favour.
Esther 9:1
RBT Passage: Job 1-4
"If you dont appreciate God for where you are, you may not
get to the next level." Gbenga Matthew
T148
Tuesday, May, 28 Mark 11:1-10
TRIUMPHAL ENTRY INTO JERUSALEM
Those who went ahead and those who followed shouted,
Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the
Lord! Mark 11:9
n the early 90s, Queen Elizabeth of England was given a
national honour as she visited Nigeria. The school children in
Lagos State at this time observed a day holiday to welcome
the beautiful Queen to Nigeria. They were given customized
vests and were mostly assembled in strategic places between
the Muritala Mohammed International Airport and the
Government house in Ikeja just to welcome Queen Elizabeth.
Jesus entry into Jerusalem is commonly referred to as
The Triumphal Entry. This suggests a king returning
triumphantly to his capital city after a war. Jesus entry into
Jerusalem may be more appropriately called Royal Entry as
He came as a king of peace, gentle and mounted on a
donkey, even on a colt, the foal of a beast burden
(Mt.21:25; Zch 9:9). At once, war and turbulence vanished as
everyone gathered to welcome the Prince of Peace into
Jerusalem. God is set to take a triumphal ride into that
particular situation of your life today; all He demands of you
is to just make Him feel welcomed. I pray, today, that the
peace of the Lord will take over that challenge that struggles
with your progress, health, success and breakthroughs in the
name of Jesus. Please make Jesus feel welcomed and
appreciate His presence in your life always.
 Birthday Blessing: Remember, O LORD, your
compassion and unfailing love, which you have shown
from long ages past. Psalm 25:6
RBT Passage: Job 5-8
You cannot expect victory and plan for defeat. Joel Osteen
I149
Wednesday, May, 29 Mark 14:12-16
PREPARATION FOR THE PASSOVER MEAL
He will show you a large upper room, furnished and ready.
Make preparations for us there. Mark 14:15
got stranded sometimes in 2015 on my way to Jos, in
the Northern part of Nigeria. I approached a Baptist
family within the area and all I needed to do was to
reveal my identity as a son of a Baptist clergy and
immediately was accommodated. The hospitality I received
that night was as though they had been expecting me prior
to that time.
The feast of Passover has been an annual event among
the Jews from the time of Moses. God commanded the
children of Israel to take the meal to reflect on the goodness of
God to them; how he delivered them from the hands of
Pharaoh. Pilgrims who had come to Jerusalem were expected
to observe the feast within the city, and hence the disciples
wanted to know where to make the preparations. Jesus
arguably demonstrated His omniscience as He asked the
disciples to approach the owner of a particular house for the
place that has been readily prepared for Him and His disciples
to take the Passover meal. The man made his house available
and ready for Jesus. There is no better room Jesus wants to
stay to wine and dine today than our hearts. How available is
your heart to host Jesus today?
 Birthday Blessings: The Lord is commanding a great
fruitfulness in your studies and the works of your
hands. You will not suffer reproach anymore. Ezekiel
36:30
RBT Passage: Job 9-12
If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in
and eat with him, and he with me. Jesus Christ
I150
Thursday, May, 30 Jeremiah 31:31-34
THE HEART-CENTRED NEW COVENANT
..."I will put my law in their minds and write it on their
hearts. I will be their God, and they will be my people."
Jeremiah 31:33, NIV
everend Sam Adeyemi once said if there is a New
York then there is a presupposition that an Old York
once existed. Recently, Nigerians began to clamour
for a restructuring which will affect her constitution and is
believed would bring about a New Nigeria. It is quite
unfortunate that the leaders are not ready to pay the price
for this change at the moment. Good changes can be very
costly but at the end it is highly rewarding.
One of the differences between the Old and the New
covenant is how God is presented and seen by the people.
In the Old, God is seen more like a Boss, fiery and fearful
One, while the New covenant presents a loving and caring
Father who desires that people gets closer to Him. This
New covenant will be inscribed on the heart of the people
and it will endure. It will bring profound changes and will
never obliterate the promises of God. A more fascinating
benefit of the new covenant is that, it will strengthen our
fellowship bonding with God. Do you desire to know God
and enjoy a more interesting fellowship with Him? This will
happen when you surrender your life totally to Him and
allow His Word to find a place in your life.
 Birthday Blessing: As you look up unto God today may
you find Him and you will never be disappointed. Psalm
121:1-2
RBT Passage: Job 13-16
"Though we are incomplete, God loves us completely."
Dieter Uchtdorf
R151
Friday, May, 31 Luke 22:14-23
THE LORDS SUPPER SHARED WITH DISCIPLES
When the hour came, Jesus and His apostles reclined at
the table Luke 22:14
haring a meal together as family is a very important
part of family relationship that a lot of people value
even when they are not together. Mealtime for some
is a routine while other people only have it on special
occasions. It serves as a time of bonding and it helps
families connect with one another. It can also be a moment
of reflection on daily activities and a place to unburden the
heart. Mealtime also helps the decision-making of the
family because everyone gets to contribute.
The Lords Supper is an ordinance being observed as a
symbol to commemorate the ultimate price Jesus paid for
the redemption of sins. In our text today, Jesus reclined at
the table with His disciples to eat the Passover meal; there
He also instituted the new ordinance, The Lords supper. It
was to serve as a reminder to the disciples about His body
and blood given for them. The words and deeds of Jesus
that night plunged the disciples into gloom as He started by
expressing how eagerly He had wanted to eat the meal with
them. This event marked a new beginning in the lives of the
disciples. God is set to begin afresh with you also if you will
eagerly take His offer of salvation. The fellowship meal is
for the disciples alone, so get enlisted too.
 Birthday Blessing: Today, I declare an escape for you
from every fowlers snare in the name of Jesus! Psalm
124:7
RBT Passage: Job 17-20
How deeply do we stand obliged to Christ- who has
redeemed us from hell? Thomas Watson
S152
Saturday, June 1 John 13:1-9
CLEAN FEET, CLEAN HEARTS
"Unless I wash you, you have no part in me John 13:8b
hen a remote village was attacked by a deadly
disease, the villages small medical team needed
volunteers who could help. However, the
volunteers who could join were only those had previously
been infected with the disease and had been successfully
treated because they were the ones who would have built
stronger immunity to the disease. Like a deadly disease,
our hearts have been stained by sin so when at His last
supper Jesus wrapped a towel around his waist and took a
basin, like a slave would, and washed His disciples feet, He
was offering His life to cleanse us from all sin.
However, unless like Peter, you let go of all your
objections and yield yourself to Christ for this cleansing, the
abundant life that Christ wants to give you, remains on
hold. When you do this, you become fit to help those around
you struggling with sinful lives. In all, we live in world
infested with sin and can be tempted to partake of it even
when we have been cleansed of our sins. Let us always
remember that we have been washed by the blood of Jesus
and say no to every temptation by Gods grace.
Peradventure, you have gotten stained, run into the
cleansing hands of our loving saviour, He has promised to
make you clean again.
 Birthday Blessing: He will make your righteous reward
shine like the dawn, your vindication like the noonday
sun. Psalm 34:6
RBT Passage: Job 21-24
Till sin be bitter, Christ will not be sweet. Thomas Walton
W153
Sunday, June 2 Mark 14:17-24; Heb 8:6-7, 10-12
JESUS INSTITUTES THE NEW COVENANT
"This is my blood of the covenant which is poured out for
many, he said to them" Mark 14:24
ech companies allow their buyers to trade their old
phones for new ones by paying a token for the new
ones. This is because there is always something
fascinating about the new. Far more superior than phones,
Jesus brought a new deal in our spiritual walk with God. The
Israelites in their relationship with God were seeking to
please God by keeping external rules and offering animal
sacrifices.
Rather than bringing us a upgraded model, God sent
Jesus His son who came and brought a perfect deal by dying
on the cross. Unlike in the old version where we would
struggle and rely on other people to know God, the Spirit of
God who lives in our heart teaches us and gives us the power
to live as God wants. You receive this new deal when you
trade your self -righteous efforts for Gods love and Spirit by
simply asking Christ into your heart through faith. You have
Gods promise to make you His people (Heb.8:10). From
then, the Holy Spirit works in your heart to love and obey
Gods Word, makes you attractive character wise, leads you
to join other believers in fellowship and gives you boldness to
talk to others about Christ. As a believer, are you excelling in
all these packages of the new deal?
 Birthday Blessing: For I know the plans I have for you,
declares the Lord, plans to prosper you and not to
harm you, plans to give you hope and a future.
Jeremiah 29:11
RBT Passage: Job 25-30
No better deal in life and beyond than Christ. Anonymous
T154
Monday, June 3 Mark 14:26-31
TURMOIL AT LAST SUPPER
"The son of man will go just as it is written about him. But
woe to that man who betrays the Son of Man!" Mark 14:21
ne popular Baptist hymn entitled "Rescue the
Perishing" talks about how much Jesus wishes that
every sinner be rescued. During the time of Jesus,
people gather together to celebrate the Passover. It was the
least place to think about betrayal not to talk of mentioning
it. Jesus intention was not to ruin the dinner but to help the
person nursing this idea to have a change of heart. It was
meant to be a way of escape out of his temptation. He was
only seeking to offer a last chance for repentance. He is
always interested in reaching out to lost souls because that
was the purpose of His death and resurrection.
Even today, Jesus is constantly seeking our attention to
help us uproot sinful destructive thoughts before they
become actions (Jam 1:15). He throws His loving arms for
us to grasp so we may escape temptation. Dear friend, that
rebuke, that timely sermon from the pastor, that
encouragement could be Gods firm hands sent for your
rescue. Take hold of it by repenting in prayer of any known
sin so that you also can enjoy the grace to live a life well
pleasing to God and become an agent of rescue for others.
 Birthday Blessing: Take delight in the Lord, and he will
give you the desires of your heart. Commit your way to
the Lord; trust in him and he will do this. Psalm 37:4-6
RBT Passage: Job 31-34
When you are in Gods will, no one else other than God can
decide your fate. Anonymous
O155
Tuesday, June 4 Mark 14:32-42
JESUS PRAYS WHILE HIS DISCIPLES SLEEP
My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death,
he said to them stay here and keep watch. Mark 14:34
he position that adversity finds us determines what
will follow afterwards. While prosperity is sought after
and worked for, adversity shows up uninvited, whether
we are ready or not. The darkest moment of Jesus life met
Him praying. Before the enemy appeared with clubs and
knives, Jesus fired the first shot in prayer that completely
set the course of events in His favour.
Though He was beaten down with sorrows, He found
strength to pray and utter words in prayer. Many times,
despair dries up our prayer life, but this need not be for God
is ready to take hold of our faintest and shortest plea. It is
worth noting that Jesus made prayer a habit in the normal
things of life so when the abnormal showed up, He was not
just up to it, he was more than it (Mark 1:35). Sometimes
young people think older people need prayer more and
should engage in it more. They also hope to take cover in
their parents prayer life, but your place of prayer remains a
vacuum until you actually show up (I Thess. 5:17). God is
longing and waiting to fellowship with you and to give you
power to give the devil a knock out. Turn on the prayer
button today and experience victory on all sides.
 Birthday Blessing: Dear friend, I pray that you may
enjoy good health and that all may go well with you,
just as you are progressing spiritually. 3rd John 1:2
RBT Passage: Job 35-38
Peace does not lie in asking God to give me other
circumstances, peace lies in finding God in these
circumstances. John Ortherg
T156
Wednesday, June 5 Mark 14:43-50
JESUS BETRAYED AND ARRESTED
Just as he was speaking, Judas, one of the Twelve
appeared. With him, was a crowd armed with swords and
clubs Mark 14:43
ost cultures have nothing but harsh descriptions of
those who betray others. The act itself has been called
backstabbing. The idea of stabbing show how
gruesome the act is and how it cuts hurtfully through the soul of
its victim. Jesus has the story of the worst kind of betrayal to
share. An inner circle disciple who had followed Him everywhere
and whom He trusted with the purse of His ministry, identified
Him with a kiss for His enemies, after a wonderful dinner.
Maybe as you read this, the image of someone who
betrayed you, has already shown up in your mind and tears
are already welling up your eyes. Let Jesus help you, He has
been through it. If you have issues with trusting people,
remember that all that happened to Him was for you to be
healed. Give Him your pains and let Him soothe them with
His pierced hands and offer you the grace to forgive. Are
you under the guilt for having betrayed a close person? God
can offer you forgiveness and release you from your guilt
when you confess to Him and ask Him to heal your heart.
He will also guide you on seeking the forgiveness of the
person whom you have hurt. Trust me, Jesus knows a lot
about betrayal. Much more, He can offer help like no other.
 Birthday Blessing: The Lord your God is with you, the
mighty warrior who saves. He will take great delight in
you Zephaniah 3:17
RBT Passage: Job 39-42
We are secured, not because we hold tightly to God, but
because He holds tightly to us. R.C. Sproul
M157
Thursday, June 6 Mark 15:16-24
JESUS CRUCIFIED BEFORE FRIENDS AND ENEMIES
"And they crucified him." Mark 15:24a
t the funeral service of Pa Otimiri, his family shared
how they have been comforted by the age and the
way, their father had died. Pa Otimiri had died in his
sleep surrounded by his loved ones at a full ripe age. Many
of us would like to live long and pass on peacefully. Jesus
death however was nothing near this. He was cut off young
in life, just in His early thirties, died in a violent way,
mocked by His enemies and abandoned by His friends.
There are many things about Christs suffering and
death that we may recoil from. But two things are certain.
One, Jesus suffering was Gods will for His life and was not
because of any fault of His (Isa 53:10). Two, Jesus suffered
in our place. Some people may accept the first truth but
reject the second truth. Nevertheless the suffering meted
on Christ was our due because we had rebelled against God
(Isa 53:4-5). Out of His love, God sent His Son to receive the
wrath due us and restore us back unto Him. Christ has not
demanded anything in exchange for this. What remains is
for you to gratefully accept Christ as your Lord and saviour
and live your life daily to please Him.
 Birthday Blessing: Because he loves me, says the
Lord, I will protect him, for he acknowledge my name.
he will call on me, and I will answer him; I will be with
him in trouble, I will deliver him and honour him. With
long life I will satisfy him... Psalm 91:14
RBT Passage: Psalms 1-8
God allows us to experience the low points of life in order to
teach us lessons that we could learn in no other way.
C.S. Lewis
A158
Friday, June 7 Mark 15:27-32
TWO CRIMINALS CRUCIFIED WITH JESUS
"They crucified two rebels with, one on the right and one on
the left." Mark 15:27
ne of the things Joseph hated about telling others
about himself is where he lives. Everybody knows
that that part of the city is the hotbed of crime and
any young person from there was viewed with suspicion. It
was not enough that Jesus had to die, crucifying Him with
criminals was a way of branding Him as one. In fact Jesus
cross stood in between two hardened criminals and many
passersby could not tell the difference between Him and
these criminals.
Indeed Jesus, Gods Son lived among sinners all His
life and even in His death, He was identified with them. But
this did not stop Jesus from being glorified with God. Do you
live in a neighbourhood known for vice or have you come
from a family that has a bad reputation and are often
misjudged for this? Maybe very few members of your
church really live as Christians. Dont lose heart. Follow
Christs example, though He was treated as a criminal, and
suffered for our wrongdoing, He continued to minister to
those that life brought His way (I Pet.4:19). You can also do
the same. Let your light continue to shine no matter how
thick the darkness is, then through you someone may know
the light of Christ.
 Birthday Blessing: For he will command his angels
concerning you to guard you in all your ways. Ps 91:11
RBT Passage: Psalms 9-17
The Christians light shines brightest in the thickest
darkness. Anonymous
O159
Saturday, June 8 Mark15: 40-47
FAITHFUL WOMEN
Some women were watching from a distancein Galilee
these women followed him and cared for his needs.
Mark 15:40-41
TV station in the USA reported the story of a couple
saved by their brave dog, Shana. When the Fertigs
brought a sick puppy, they never could have thought that
seven years later, this puppy would save their lives. On this
day, Shana went in search of her owners only to find them,
trapped by fallen trees in a deadly snowstorm. The dog dug a
tunnel that reached their house under the trees and practically
dragged her owners home. Near the cross were a group of
women who were of a kindred spirit with Christ. Before now,
Jesus had transformed these womens lives by his loving
words when they sat his feet. Despite the humiliation Jesus
went through, they stood by Christ till the very end.
Though Christ is not physically alive again, the world is
still crucifying Him by her rejection of His death and its
hatred for the people who want to follow Him. Thus, today
Christ still needs faithful disciples like the women at the
cross. These are people who would appreciate Him for
saving them from their sins and who would stand as His
friends when troubles come their ways. These friends are
never ashamed to be identified with Christ before their
unbelieving classmates and neighbours and can proudly tell
others that they are friends of Jesus. Oh that we will be
faithful to Christ, our Christian brethren and the Church!
 Birthday Blessing: No one will be able to stand against
you all the days of your life. Joshua 1:5
RBT Passage: Psalms 18-21
Faithfulness to Christ is never out of fashion. Anonymous
A160
Sunday, June 9 Mark15:6-15, 25-26, 33-39
NEW COVENANT SEALED WITH JESUS BLOOD
With a loud cry, Jesus breathed her last. Mark 15:37
ilms of people using blood to promise one another
everlasting friendship and love abound and
confessions of some cultists also reveal this. They see
their blood as symbols of their lives which they offer to the
other person or persons. Apart from the blood of Christ
shed as sacrifice for the forgiveness of sins, blood covenant
with anyone or an idol comes from the devil and lands us in
slavery and bondage. Christ did away with the old covenant
that commanded the use of animal blood to seek Gods
forgiveness. His death serves as the ultimate and only
sacrifice for sins.
He has opened a new way to approach God that does
not require the use of animal blood since He has sealed the
new way with His blood once and for all (Heb. 9:14). If you
are in a covenant of blood or you know a person who has
entered one, the incomparable blood of Christ can nullify it,
only if you or the person, can accept Jesus sacrificial death
and appropriate the freedom in the blood of Christ. If you
are in Christ, stand in the liberty that Christ has given you
and refuse to be entangled by acts of evil regardless of life
challenges. Shalom.
 Birthday Blessing: The God of Peace will soon crush
Satan under your feet. Rom. 16:20
RBT Passage: Psalms 22-27
The Blood of Jesus speaks perfect peace. Anonymous
F161
Monday, June 10 Exodus 24:3-8
THE PEOPLE PROMISED TO OBEY
They responded We will do everything the Lord has said;
we will obey Exodus 24:3
o become citizens, foreign residents undergo an oath
taking ceremony usually administered by a judge, in
which they promise allegiance to their host countries.
During such ceremonies, there is also the promise to obey
all laws of that particular country as it is expected that they
would be law abiding citizens. For instance, foreigners living
in the United Kingdom pledge allegiance to the reigning
monarch of England. When Moses read the laws God had
given him to the people of Israel, they responded with a
resounding Yes, we will obey. By this, Israel became
formally Gods country, Gods law was her constitution and
they (the people) became the citizens of Gods nation.
As believers, we have promised our allegiance to Christ
who has revealed God to us fully and much more He has
reconciled us back to God by His blood. We are citizens of
God's kingdom, set apart from the world to show Gods
glory. Christ has not handed you external rules to keep but
has given you the Holy Spirit who imparts Gods nature in
you and enables us to say yes to Gods will. (1Pet. 1:3)
What a blessing! No more holding back. Even now
surrender to Christ in all areas of your life. Like the people,
you by the Spirit can say Yes to Gods will and way.
 Birthday Blessing: "May he send you help from the
sanctuary and grant you support from Zion Psalm
20:2
RBT Passage: Psalms 28-33
The man who has God for His treasure has all things in one.
A.W. Tozer
T162
Tuesday, June 11 Leviticus 16:11-19
AARON PERFORMS THE ATONING SIN SACRIFICE
having made atonement for himself, his household and
whole community of Israel then he shall come out to the
altar that is before the LORDLev.16:17b-18a
he Israelites of old had a day marked in their calendar
"The Day of Atonement." The idea of atoning is making
amends or compensating for their sins against God. At
that time, the entire sins of the nation were atoned for
through the blood of bulls and goats. Aaron slaughtered a
bull for himself and a goat for the leaders and the whole
community and this was required yearly. No one was so
righteous to be exempted
Indeed even now, sin is not a simple issue and there
are no small sins as some people think. Cover-ups do not
work with sins for God sees it. Moreover, no good work
merits Gods righteousness. Like the Israelites of old, each
of us still stands in need of Gods forgiveness however, it is
no longer through animals offered by any priest, but Christ
the High Priest, chosen by God, has made propitiation for
the sins of the whole world. There is nothing else to do
about sin but to give it to Christ and exchange it for His
forgiveness. There are young people and even older ones
who are seeking for ways to be rid of their sins. As a
believer, you have experienced the forgiveness of God,
therefore help others to also enjoy this provision today.
 Birthday Blessing: I will never leave you nor forsake
you. Joshua 1:5b
RBT Passage: Psalms 34-37
Sin stains all; Christs blood cleanses all who ask.
Anonymous
T163
Wednesday, June 12 Titus 2:11-15
REDEEMED AND PURIFIED
"...and Saviour Jesus Christ who gave himself for us to
redeem us from all wickedness and to purify for himself, a
people that are his very own, eager to do what is good."
Titus 2:13b-14
broad smile appeared on Rufus wrinkled face as
Atiba, the refiner handed him a piece of shinning
precious metal. His mind went back to when his last
son had thrown out that metal then it was a rough piece of
stone yet to be refined and how luckily he found it after
paying the waste management agency to dig through the
town dump site. In a way, every Christians experience is
like that of the precious metal.
Once we were individually sold to sin due to our
disobedience then Christ came, brought back by His own
blood and purified us of all our sins. Now as a child of God,
you are refined and are Gods change agent in this world, so
you are expected to say No to all forms of evil. In this new
life, there is no place for gambling, sexual immorality,
gossips, wild living, indecent fashion that carry other young
people away (Gal. 2:20). The struggle you are having with a
particular sin is a mark that the grace of God in your life
would not let you to live in sin so dont quit the fight. Keep
saying No no matter how many times. This is all because
the grace of God that has appeared has saved and cleansed
you (v 11) so it is perfectly okay to share your testimony.
 Birthday Blessing: I will make your name great and you
will be a blessing. Genesis 12:2b
RBT Passage: Psalms 38-42
What you can't go through God will help you to fly over.
Woodrow Kroll
A164
Thursday, June 13 Hebrew 10:19-25
ENTERING THE SANCTUARY BY JESUS BLOOD
Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the
Most Holy Place by the blood of Jesus, Heb 10:19, NIV
unior and his friends were excited that their friend gave
them invites to the cinema to watch a new movie. On
the d day, they gracefully joined the short queue of
special guests ready to go into the theatre. Seeing the
crowd of those without tickets, they felt really proud to have
been invited. However, when it was finally their turn to be
checked in, they discovered that their invites had not been
signed. They had to awkwardly turn away to avoid a bigger
embarrassment. What a pity! Their friend had forgotten to
append his signature.
In life, you really do need certain persons to get into
some places. On a far more important level, you need the
person of Christ to have access to God (Rom.5:1). Do you
sense a no entry sign between you and God? The good
news is that the access has been made and you only need
to walk through it by believing Christ as your Lord and
Saviour. With this access, you can approach God boldly as
your loving Father and enjoy His presence all day along
(Heb.4:16). Let this truth fill your heart with joy regardless
of the kind of human access you are being denied right
now. Trust your heavenly Father to make a way.
 Birthday Blessing: The Lord will make you the head and
not the tail. Deuteronomy 28:13
RBT Passage: Psalms 43-49
Gods Access Card has Christs name boldly written on it.
Anonymous
J165
Friday, June 14 Hebrews 9:1-10
THE TIME HAS COME
"This is an illustration for the present time." Heb 9:9a
embers of a community were overjoyed because
some months before, what was where their newly
completed multipurpose building is, was a tent
that could only take a small gathering of the people. The
tabernacle God gave Moses to build was, a magnificent tent
placed at the centre of the Israelite community in the
wilderness. It was a meeting place with God and a physical
reminder of Gods presence and provision for their spiritual
needs. As wonderful and satisfying as the tabernacle was,
God intended it to last only for a while and to serve as a
physical illustration of what Christ will spiritually be to those
who will come to God through Him.
Since Christ came we all, not just the Israelites, have
Him as our sufficiency, both spiritually and physically.
Indeed you have all you need for life and godliness once He
is at centre of your life. Are you still holding on to a physical
worship item, thinking that you can only experience God
through it? Christ has met every need of yours, so you do
not need to hang on any physical item to authenticate your
relationship with God. Simply accept His finished work on
the cross and sit at His table through reading and
meditating on His Word and prayer. Your soul then shall
continually rejoice in His bountiful provision.
 Birthday Blessing: Do not be afraid: you will not be
disgraced. Do not fear you will not be humiliated. You
will forget the shame of your youth. Isaiah 54:4
RBT Passage: Psalms 50-55
The Soul that has Christ has His sufficiency. Anonymous
M166
Saturday, June 15 Heb 9:23-28
CHRIST, THE FINAL SACRIFICE FOR SIN
"So Christ was sacrificed once to take away the sins of
many people" Hebrews 9:28, NIV
oing certain thing as routines is one of the things
learnt early in life. For instance, there are nights
children may love to crawl up their bed but parents
would not allow them to miss the bathing routine. The
people of Israel and priests kept a routine of making
sacrifices and offerings to God, as commanded in the law of
Moses as a way of servicing their relationship with God.
The problem of sin was not fixed but was simply carried
forward. Gods plan was to completely remove the barrier of
sin between Him and those who want to seek Him
anywhere. For this reason, He sent Jesus to come as a
perfect Priest to offer not the blood of animals but His own
blood and thereby putting an end to sin.
His sacrifice fixed the problem of sin permanently,
making perfect everyone who desires a relationship with
God through Him (Heb. 9:12). God does not recognize short
cuts of fasting, giving and doing good work, which bypass
Christs final sacrifice. What remains is the everlasting
judgment for those who reject Christ, Gods own solution for
sin once they die. Have you accepted the timeless sacrifice
of Christ? God loves you so key into His love by opening
your heart to Christ.
 Birthday Blessing: You will be blessed when you come
in and when you go out. Deut.28:6
RBT Passage: Psalms 56-61
"No more Condemnation for those in Christ."
The Holy Bible
D167
Sunday, June 16 Hebrews 9: 11-22
CHRIST, MEDIATOR OF THE NEW COVENANT
Christ is the Mediator of a new Covenant, that those who
are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance
Hebrews 9:15
n life, governments can amend laws to favour certain
people so as to grant them freedom. Presidents,
Governors, and Chief Judges may grant some inmates
liberty from prison in order to start a new life but they
cannot lay down their lives. Lawyers can plead on behalf of
their clients but it is a paid job and they may even lose the
case. The client would be back to cell and the old life
continues.
Jesus Christ offered Himself as atonement for our sins
and thus became the Mediator between God and man. He
paved way for the new covenant which has been completely
ratified and the blessings secured to us. The new covenant
has rendered all other sacrifices needless. It has established
a new relationship between God and whosoever believes in
His only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, such will also receive the
promise of an eternal inheritance {v.15}. Beloved, Jesus is
the way, the truth and the life. Believe Him and become a
member of Gods family. If you are already a member of
God's family, make sure you walk worthy of your calling. You
life must attest to the fact that you have a relationship with
God through Christ. Let your life point others to Christ.
 Birthday Blessing: Yet in the townsthat are
desertedthere will be heard once more the sounds of
joy and gladness. Jeremiah 33:10, NIV
RBT Passage: Psalms 62-68
The most agreeable thing in life is worthy
accomplishment. Edgar Rowe
I168
Monday, June 17 1 John 5:6-12
JESUS CHRIST: THE SOURCE OF LIFE
Whoever has the Son, has life, whoever does not have the
Son of God does not have life. 1 John 5:12
ne of God's greatest miracle and blessings is the
miracle of conception and delivery. God, in His
infinite wisdom, decides to hide a life inside another
life. This makes every birth to become a reminder that man
is the masterpiece of God's creation. When you consider
the beauty of the human life, you will be left with no doubt
about the beauty of the divine life God has made available
through His Son Jesus Christ. God made the woman a link
to the human life, the same way He made Christ the link of
the divine life. The Spirit, the water and the blood
harmoniously agreed and bear testimony that Jesus Christ
is the only Saviour of the world {v.7}. God has given us a
beautiful life purchased and treasured up in Jesus Christ,
who has all the springs and the fullness of it {v.11}. It is
important to note that whoever has the Son, Jesus, living
and reigning in Him by faith, has life. He, who does not have
Him, has no part in Him. God has given us eternal life, and
this life is in His Son, Jesus the Christ. A new life begins in
you the moment you believe in Him. A life without Jesus
Christ is open to life hazards and crisis. Make Him your
source of life.
 Birthday Blessing: "And the LORD shall guide thee
continually, and satisfy thy soul in drought, and make
fat thy bones." Isaiah 58:11.
RBT Passage: Psalms 69-72
No man has a good enough memory to make a successful
liar. Abraham Lincoln
O169
Tuesday, June 18 1 Peter 3:8-12
PURSUE UNITY IN THE CHURCH
Finally all of you, be like-minded, be sympathetic, love one
another, be compassionate and humble. 1 Peter 3:8
local Baptist Church, in which almost all members
had close relationship had some crises that almost
broke their bound. Many people had intervened in
the matter, without much success. Some youths of the
church sought Gods intervention through fasting and
prayer. During an emergency Church-in-conference, the
matter was resolved and peace returned to the church.
Crises are inevitable among people and the Church is not
an exception. The Word of God enjoins us to live peaceably
with all men {v. 11}. This is to be done in season and out of
season. Christians irrespective of class or status must ensure
unity in the body of Christ. Christians should be patient; Be likeminded; Be compassionate; Not revengeful; Humble and,
Keep ones tongue from evil and deceitful speeches. These will
promote peace in the church. There must be mutual
understanding and respect for peoples opinions. Issues
should be resolved quickly and amicably between and among
members. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called
the children of God {Mathew 5:9}. Are you a peace maker?
Make sure you restore that strained relationship with your
Maker, friends, and fellowship members. Gods intention for
the Church to be united is non-negotiable.
 Birthday Blessing: Then you shall see and become
radiant, and your heart shall swell with joy; because the
abundance of the sea shall be turned to you. Isa 60:5
RBT Passage: Psalms 73-77
The bamboo which bends is stronger than the oak which
resists. Japanese Proverb
A170
Wednesday, June 19 Ephesians 2:11-22
ALL PEOPLES UNITED IN CHRIST
But now in Christ Jesus, youhave been brought near
through the blood of Christ. Ephesians 2:12-13
rancis lost his poor parents in a motor accident on their
way to visit a family friend in the hospital. Mr. Abraham,
his late fathers friend, was rich and well educated.
Though from a different tribe, Mr. Abraham was so
passionate about Francis well being. He took steps and gave
the boy a new status. He adopted Francis and introduced
him to his entire family as a full member of the family.
There was enmity between God and man  whether
Jews or Gentiles, which Jesus Christ came to end. Paul
proclaimed the way of salvation to be through Christ alone.
Remembering our past lives outside Christ, our present lives
in Christ should humble us and increase our love towards
others for a united Gods family. We should do everything
within our power to make everyone around us feel the
unconditional love of Christ through us. Every converted
sinner should be free in the Church. There should not be any
discrimination or segregation. All believers of the Gospel
should be united in Christ by faith, grow together unto a holy
temple of God and dwell in Him till eternity. We have been
adopted into Gods family. His blood qualifies us to be
members of Gods family. Therefore, be an agent of unity.
 Birthday Blessing: And the ransomed of the LORD shall
return, and come to Zion with songs and everlasting joy
upon their head. Isaiah 35: 10.
RBT Passage: Psalms 78-80
Raised voices lower esteem. Hot tempers cool friendships.
Loose tongues stretch truth. Swelled heads shrink
influence. Sharp words dull respect. William A. Ward
F171
Thursday, June 20 Colossians 1:15-20
CHRIST, THE IMAGE OF GOD
The Son is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all
creation. Colossians 1:15
rancis Chan told the following story about a man
named Vaughn who radiated the love of Christ to
everyone around him so much so that one of his coworker said, "I kept thinking, If Jesus was on earth, I think
this is what it would feel like to walk with him. He just loved
everyone he ran into, and he would tell them about God.
People were just drawn to his love and affection. The day I
spent with Vaughn was the closest thing I've ever
experienced to walking with Jesus."
Christ is the true image of God in every way. He is the
express image of God, so that in Jesus, you see all that are
in God. In the same way, God desires that all that are in
Christ will be in every believer. Just as Christ reflects God,
He wants believers to reflect Christ, so that at the end we
will all have the same nature and image of God. He wants
us to treat everyone around us like Christ will do so that
everyone around us will have a touch of God's love through
us. As a child of God, you must represent your Father
adequately in whatever you say or do. Are you a true mirror
of Christ? Let others see Jesus in you.
 Birthday Blessing: I will give peace in the land, and you
shall lie down, and none will make you afraid; I will rid
the land of evil beasts, and the sword will not go
through your land. Leviticus 26:6
RBT Passage: Psalms 81-88
Jesus is not to us as Christmas is to the world, here today
and gone tomorrow.Rick Mylander
F172
Friday, June 21 Colossians 1: 24-29
A PURPOSE-DRIVEN MINISTRY
He (Christ) is the one we proclaim, admonishing and
teaching everyone with all wisdom, so that we may present
everyone fully mature in Christ. -Colossians 1:28
veryone must discover the purpose of living. Billy Graham,
a world renowned preacher, was known for his undiluted
message of salvation. After his death, the crusade he held
in Chicago in 1971 was broadcast. He preached Jesus Christ
with great passion for the lost souls and in depth of the Spirit of
God. He won many souls to Christ with his ministry. Apostle Paul
was a steward and builder, a diligent and committed preacher of
the Gospel who suffered for the good of the Church.
Paul encouraged and taught the people with all wisdom in
private and public places. He warned them about what were
wrong and taught them the right things. He did all for the
purpose of presenting everyone perfectly mature in Christ. With
Christ in us, we have hope for a glorious future. He also
emphasise the fact that Jesus Christ alone should be our
message. Leaders should endeavour to lead the Church to see
Christ only. They should remember that the congregation they
are leading was bought by the precious blood of Jesus Christ.
Believers also should learn to accommodate one another as
we are one in Christ and also learn glorify God in all our
achievements. Do you know what you are living for? Is what
you do motivated by Gods purpose? Discover you ministry and
work passionately towards it.
 Birthday Blessing: I will make you into a great nation and
I will bless you; will make your name great... Gen 12:2-3
RBT Passage: Psalms 89-94
You cannot help men permanently by doing for them what
they could and should do for themselves. Abraham Lincoln
E173
Saturday, June 22 Colossians 2:16-23
MAINTAIN YOUR UNION WITH CHRIST
Therefore, do not let anyone judge you by what you eat or
drink or with regards to a religious festival, a new Moon
celebration or a Sabbath day Colossians 2:16
elationships that will last long and stand the test of time
must be guided with certain rules that are clear to both
parties involved in the relationship. In a situation where
one of the parties involved misinterpret the rules such
relationship cannot last. God gave clear instructions on what His
relationship with His children should look like. He wants us to
relate with Him through the person of Jesus Christ. But Paul
discovered that some believers have taken outward appearance
and ceremonial cleansing as the most important aspect of their
worship to God. In as much as those things are not wrong, it
should be noted that those are not the things that sustain our
relationship with God. Christ is the foundation of every
relationship with God and only He can sustain that relationship.
Paul wants us to experience spiritual reality as we
experience Christ. He didnt want us to just appear holy but
to be holy in character and in relationship with Him. The
gospel teaches us to worship in Spirit and in truth, not by
ritual observances. It is the highest dishonour to Christ for
any believer to subject himself or herself to human
ordinances contrary to the liberty of the gospel. Let us trust
Christ to live out His life in us as we obey His Word.
 Birthday Blessing: When you pass through the waters, I
will be with you; And through the rivers, they shall not
overflow you. Isaiah 43:2
RBT Passage: Psalms 95-103
If you make a great deal of Christ, He will make a great
deal of you.R.A. Torrey
R174
Sunday, June 23 Colossians 2:1-15
BE UNITED WITH CHRIST AND ONE ANOTHER
My goal is that they may be encouraged in heart and
united in love, so that they may have the full riches of
complete understanding, in order that they may know the
mystery of God, namely, Christ. Colossians 2:2
n old man was on his sick bed but sad that his
children were not united. He knew that, development
and progress can only thrive in the atmosphere of
peace and unity. He pleaded for unity among them as a
request for a prolonged life for him and their mother. The
children reconciled and the family lived the rest of their
lives in joy and peace.
It is expected of all believers in Jesus Christ to walk,
rooted and built up in Him as we have received Him {v.
6&7}. God bought Christians as His people and by His grace
He enables them to die to sin, and live in righteousness and
unity. Paul showed us that every believer is an individual
participant and recipient of the divine grace. All followers of
Christ should think, pray and show concern for one another
about the prosperity our souls. We should see that other
brethren have a clear and distinct knowledge of the truth of
the Gospel. How do you use your gifts to promote unity
where God plants you? A good knowledge of who Christ is
makes us agent of peace to our world. Please, promote
unity in your family, office, church and the society.
 Birthday Blessing: I will preserve You and give You for a
covenant to the people, To restore the earth, To cause
them to inherit the desolate heritages; Isaiah 49:8
RBT Passage: Psalms 104-106
Promises may get friends, but it is performance that keeps
them. Owen Felltham
A175
Monday, June 24 Psalms 57
LIVING AMONG WRONGDOERS
I am in the midst of lions; I am forced to dwell among
ravenous beasts-men whose teeth are spears and arrows,
whose tongues are sharp swords. Psalm 57:4
e all enjoy listening to tales of victory of those that
have scaled through one hurdle or another. Talking
about it sounds sweet and inviting, but when one
considers the cost of living a righteous life, especially in the
midst of wantonness one will discover that it is not as easy
as it sounds.
David was surrounded with enemies that were so fierce
and furious. Though he was disturbed because he did
nothing to warrant such ill will, he humbly professed his
trust in God with boldness. He supported himself with
sincere dedication, devotion and entire satisfaction in God.
His firm faith in God subdued his enemies boasting. At
times, we may be surrounded by those who hate, gossip
and criticize us unjustly, we must have our confidence in
Gods love and faithfulness. Our dependence on God will
save us from self-pity or revenge. Are you accused wrongly,
insulted and embarrassed for no just cause? Seek God with
devout affection and trust Him. His hand will accomplish
your desire and the Scripture will be fulfilled. He knows how
to vindicate you in His own way. Relax, God is in control.
 Birthday Blessing: You shall laugh at destruction and
famine, and you shall not be afraid of the beasts of the
earth. Job 5:22
RBT Passage: Psalms 107-111
For evildoers shall be cut off: but those that wait upon the
LORD, they shall inherit the earth. The Holy Bible
W176
Tuesday, June 25 1 John 4:7-21
PERFECT GODS LOVE AMONG YOU
Dear friends, since God so loved us, we ought to love one
another. 1 John 4:11
ne evening, a couple was strolling along their street.
The wife asked the husband, do you love me? The
husband responded, I love you. She asked again,
and the husband responded accordingly. After about three
minutes, she asked her husband, can you die for my love
for you? The man said, my love goes beyond feeling. Death
cannot destroy it.
Love is of God. The spirit of God is the spirit of love.
Whoever loves knows God. Gods nature, essence, will and
works are primarily love. Believers should be imitators if
Christ and love those He loves. The general love of God
through Jesus Christ to the world should induce a universal
love among mankind. Jesus gave His life as a
demonstration of unconditional love. The Holy Spirit gives
us the power to love; he lives in our hearts and makes us
more and more like Christ. If God so loved us, we ought also
to love one another. It is our duty to perfect Gods love by
loving ourselves as Jesus loves us. Love must not be
hypocritical but voluntary and unconditional irrespective of
race, colour or nationality. Let there be love shared among
us.
 Birthday Blessing: There is surely a future hope for you
and your hope shall not be cut short. Proverbs 23:18
RBT Passage: Psalms 112-118
Love is the basic need of human nature, for without it, life
is disrupted emotionally, mentally, spiritually and
physically. Karl Menninger
O177
Wednesday, June 26 Luke 6:17-23
GREAT REWARDS TO COME
Blessed are you when people hate you,exclude
youinsult you and reject your name as evil, because of the
Son of Man, Rejoice in that day and leap for joy, because
great is your reward in heaven. Luke 6: 22-23
Moslem lady became converted, joined the Church
and removed her hijab (head covering for Moslem
ladies or women). Her father, a Moslem Cleric, sent
her out of the house because what she did was a taboo in
Islam. Attempts were made on her life and she decided not
to change her name. Some brethren in the Lord took up her
responsibilities and sponsored her education. What a
reward!
Jesus told the disciples who left all and followed Him
that; the kingdom of God belongs to them; they would be
filled and experience no thirst; and they shall laugh and
reap in joy. Jesus acknowledged the ill will of the world
upon the saints but assured them of blessings and great
rewards. Those who look beyond the worldly material and
seek Gods kingdom would not only have great reward in
heaven, but rejoice in that day and leap for joy.
We should not depend on our fat bank account or wellstocked assets as the reward. Bear and triumph in all you
are passing through. A great reward awaits you.
 Birthday Blessing: I will bless those who bless you, and
I will curse him who curses you; and in you all the
families of the earth shall be blessed. Genesis 12:3
RBT Passage: Psalm 119
"But seek ye first, the kingdom of God and His
righteousness, and all these will be given to you as well."
-- The Holy Bible
A178
Thursday, June 27 Mark 3:7-12
APOSTLES CHOSEN FOR MINISTRY
Jesus went upandappointed twelve that they might be
with him and that he might send them to preach and to
have authority to drive out demons. Mark 3:13-15
campus fellowship was to choose their officers for the
next academic session. The members were sensitized
and were prepared for the exercise. Considering the
enormity of the assignment, many decided to turn down the
offer thinking that taking up the assignment will jeopardize
their academic pursuit. But, during the induction, the message
that was preached made it clear that God does not call the
qualified, but qualifies and equips the called.
God will not do anything without a purpose. Jesus called the
twelve disciples, so that, they 1.) might be with Him, 2.) may be
sent to preach, and 3.) to drive out demons. These men were
saddled with the responsibilities of being partners in the ministry
of reaching more people for the kingdom. Jesus was consistent
with the assignment and the purpose for which he came to the
world. He remained focused and knew the right tool(s) needed
for the job. Have you discovered the purpose of your living? Do
you have the blueprint so that you will not run aimlessly? It is not
too late; you can begin from now so that as you go out in all of
your assignments, you will remain focused. If you are a child of
God, you have been commission to be a solution to the problem
of your generation. You are saved to serve!
 Birthday Blessings: And thine ears shall hear a word
behind thee, saying, this is the way, walk ye in it... Isa 30:21
RBT Passage: Psalms 120-133
I dont want any yes-men around me. I want everyone to tell me
the trutheven though it costs him his job. Samuel Goldwyn
A179
Friday, June 28 Luke 6:37-45
DO NOT JUDGE
Do not judge, and you will not be judged. Do not condemn,
and you will not be condemned. Forgive and you will be
forgiven. Luke 6:37
r. Andrew, a disciplinarian, had four girls and a boy.
Whenever there was trouble in the house, the
parents assumed that the boy always used his
masculine prowess against his elder sisters. This
assumption made the father beat the boy mercilessly one
day after a rift, without any verification. The mother came
later to claim being responsible for the quarrel and not the
boy. If Mr. Andrew had been patient enough, he would not
have judged wrongly.
Jesus stressed that those things, which you accuse
other people of may be found in your life. Therefore,
Christians are enjoined not to judge or condemn anyone. To
help at pulling the mote out of our brothers eye is good but
we must begin by reforming ourselves. We must be
blameless, and harmless and without rebuke {Luke 6:41,
42}. A forgiving spirit demonstrates that a person has
received Gods forgiveness. We are to be compassionate,
and treat others generously and graciously. Jesus Christ is
the Judge of the world.
 Birthday Blessings: Even to your old age, I am He, And
even to gray hairs I will carry you! I have made, and I
will bear; even I will carry, and will deliver you.
RBT Passage: Psalms 134-140
Dont carry a grudge. While youre carrying the grudge the
other guys out dancing. --Buddy Hackett
M180
Saturday, June 29 1 Thessalonians 4:1-12
A LIFE PLEASING TO GOD
It is Gods will that you should be sanctified: that you should
avoid sexual immorality; 1 Thessalonians 4:3
n a world full of different kind of wickedness living a life
that is pleasing to God seems almost impossible.
Everywhere you turn there are all kinds of evil calling
your attention. It takes complete dependence on the
leadership of the Holy Spirit to walk blameless before God.
Holy living in all areas of our lives is most pleasing to the
Holy God and this should be the aim of every Christian. In
pleasing God, we should abstain from all uncleanness in
whatever state we find ourselves.
The law of God forbids all impurity and violating it
means despising God. God expects us to desist from any
immoral act and be sanctified. Being overcome by
temptation can have disastrous results. Besides the
physical consequences, there are also spiritual
consequences. When we make pleasing God our utmost
priority, our lives will win the respect of others. Unbelievers
will see us and they will be able to identify that indeed we
have been with the Lord. God is wants our lives to be a
good testimony for unbelievers, therefore, we should do
everything within our capacity to please God. What are
those things you are struggling with? Pray to God for
strength to stand for Him, even in the face of temptation.
 Birthday Blessing: I will go before you and make the
crooked places straight; I will break in pieces the gates
of bronze And cut the bars of iron. Isaiah 45:2
RBT Passage: Psalms 141-150
If you are willing and obedient, you will eat the good of the
land." The Holy Bible
I181
Sunday, June 30 Matthew 5:1-12
RIGHT ATTITUDES FOR BLESSED LIVING
Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you
and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of
me.. Matthew 5:11-12
f you assign numerals to the twenty-six English alphabets
and equate each corresponding number to the word,
ATTITUDE, you will get one hundred (100). This
suggests the importance of attitude in ones life. Jesus
message begins with the true meaning of being blessed
which is referred to as, beatitude. Each beatitude tells how
to be blessed. Blessed means more than happiness. The
Scripture talks about: the poor in spirit, those who mourn,
hunger and thirst after righteousness, the pure in heart, the
peacemakers and those who are being persecuted for
righteousness {v.3-10}.
People with these attributes are the fortunate and
enviable people in God's kingdom. To Jesus, blessed means
the experience of hope and joy, independent of outward
circumstances. To find hope and joy, the deepest form of
happiness, follow Jesus no matter what the cost. Jesus said
that Gods kingdom is organized differently from worldly
kingdoms. In the kingdom of heaven, worldly wealth, power
and authority are irrelevant. Kingdom people seek godly
blessings with kingdom attitudes. Are your attitudes that of the
world or a reflection of the humility and self-sacrifice of Jesus?
There are blessings in positive attitude and perseverance.
 Birthday Blessing: So I will restore to you the years
that the swarming locust has eaten Joel 2:25
RBT Passage: Proverbs 1-3
"The Promised Land always lies on the other side of a
wilderness." --Havelock Ellis
I182
Monday, July 1 Colossians 4:1-6
LIVING WISELY
Be wise in the way you act towards outsiders; make the
most of every opportunity. Colossians 4:5, NIV
wo passengers arrived at the bus station at a time
when there was only one space left. The younger man
utilised the opportunity to respect the elderly as he
yielded the space to him and took space in the next bus.
Unknown to the young man, the man was actually going to
be the chairman of the panel for the job interview he was
rushing to attend. At the interview, the chairman praised
the young man for demonstrating a good blend of
intelligence and wisdom even in his dealings with strangers
and gave him the job.
Having charged the masters to treat their slaves with
fairness, Apostle Paul encouraged the Colossians to be
devoted to prayer, not only for themselves but also for the
ministers. He then charged them to demonstrate wisdom in
the way they act towards outsiders stressing the need for
them to appropriately utilise every opportunity as they
speak with grace. If you are to be judged in the light of this
passage, how well would you fare in terms of fair dealing,
devotion to prayers for self and others, wisdom in treating
strangers nicely and gracious in speech? If you were that
young man, would you have lost the job because of your
rude response to the unknown chairman? Live wisely and
speak with grace at every opportunity.
 Birthday Blessing: Blessed are those who find wisdom,
those who gain understanding. Proverbs 3:13
RBT Passage: Proverbs 4-7
"The art of peaceful living comes down to living
compassionately and wisely."  Allan Lokos
T183
Tuesday, July 2 Isaiah 42:1-9
A LIGHT TO THE NATIONS
I, the LORD, have called you in righteousness; I will take
hold of your hand. I will keep you and will make you...a light
for the Gentiles. Isaiah 42:6, NIV
ighthouses are built along dangerous coastlines to aid
navigation as they emit light from different systems of
lamps and lenses. Todays passage presents the
servant of the Lord as an agent of light who brings justice
and peace to the world. He shuns violence, unfaithfulness
and discouragement as He brings justice to the world and
His teachings bring hope to people.
It also talks about God's promises to His chosen, in the
person of Christ and everyone that believes in Him. God is
still in the business of upholding those He has chosen to be
a covenant to the people and a light to the nations. Can
God depend on you to give illumination to the world around
you? Can you serve as a lighthouse to aid peoples
navigation along dangerous zones of life? You need to
remain perpetually connected to God to serve this purpose.
God wants to use you to open blind eyes, free the captives
and release those who sit in darkness. You can only serve
this purpose well when you allow God to uphold you and
allow His Spirit to dwell in you. Many are groping in
darkness around you. Rise up to the occasion, go light your
world as you stay connected to God.
 Birthday Blessing: Arise, shine, for your light has come,
and the glory of the LORD rises upon you. Isaiah 60:1
RBT Passage: Proverbs 8-11
"Learn to light a candle in the darkest moments of
someones life. Be the light that helps others see; it is what
gives life its deepest significance."  Roy T. Bennett
L184
Wednesday, July 3 Hebrew 10:1-10
CHRISTS SACRIFICE FOR ALL
we have been made holy through the sacrifice of the
body of Jesus Christ once for all. Hebrew 10:10, NIV
t the end of his first year in school, James was so glad
he topped his class. However, it wasnt long before
the excitement waned off as he got overwhelmed with
thoughts of how he struggled to pay his fee in three
instalments. He became worried as to whether or not he
would drop out of school as a result of lack of funds for the
subsequent years. Just then, the H.O.D shook his hand,
congratulated him on his brilliant performance and
announced to him that a philanthropist had paid his way
through the university. James joy knew no bounds.
Comparing old covenant sacrifices with the sacrifice of
Christ, the inadequacies of the former are glaring as they
had to be done over and again. Thus, they became an
annual reminder of sin. But when Christ came, He offered
the sacrifice once and for all atoning even for the sins of
those who are yet unborn. Like James, your sins have been
atoned for; Christ has paid your way through to redemption.
You only need to tap into the resources of grace as
available in Christs sacrifice for all. Come to Jesus today
and let His sufferings bring your salvation.
 Birthday Blessing: Blessed is the nation whose God is
the LORD, the people he chose for his inheritance.
Psalms 33:12
RBT Passage: Proverbs 12-14
"Christs wounds are thy healing, His agonies thy repose,
His conflicts thy conquest, His groans thy songs, His pains
thine ease, His shame thy glory, His death thy life, His
sufferings thy salvation."  Matthew Henry
A185
Thursday, July 4 Matthew 23:1-12
LIVING HUMBLY
those who exalt themselves will be humbled, and those
who humble themselves will be exalted. Matthew 23:12
man was compelled to go to the church very early one
morning. On arrival, he met a beautiful lady in old clothes
cleaning the church. He felt sorry for her and thought
that God had led him to the church to help change her level.
So, he insisted on giving her some money and offered to give
her a ride when she was done with her assignment. The lady
politely refused both offers but the man pressed on. He walked
her out of the church only to discover the lady owned a BMW
X6 2017 which made his car look like a wheelbarrow. The man
then discovered that God had actually led him to the church to
learn humility. If a woman of such status could offer to clean
God's house, he has no reason to be proud.
In todays passage, Jesus warned against hypocrisy,
eye-service, and self-conceit. Contrary to the human
tendencies toward pride, Jesus taught His disciples the
beauty of servant-leadership and humility that leads to
divine exaltation. Do you often feel you are not noticed or
duly celebrated? Do you flaunt whatever you think you are
endowed with to gain attention? Then, you must cry to God
for help and rise above the desires of the flesh. Live humbly
and watch God exalt you in due course.
 Birthday Blessing: I will instruct you and teach you in
the way you should go; I will counsel you with my loving
eye on you. Psalms 32:8
RBT Passage: Proverbs 15-17
"Sense shines with a double luster when it is set in humility.
An able yet humble man is a jewel worth a kingdom."
 William Penn
A186
Friday, July 5 Luke 6:1-11
APPLYING THE LAW IN NEW WAYS
Then Jesus said to them, I ask you, which is lawful on the
Sabbath: to do good or to do evil, to save life or to destroy
it? Luke 6:9, NIV
egalistic religion promotes strict adherence to the
letters of the law without necessarily paying attention
to the spirit of the law. This was the position of the
Pharisees in todays passage. They appeared to be so
concerned about the fulfilment of the law of the Sabbath
meanwhile their motive was wrong; they only wanted to use
the occasion to accuse Jesus (verse 7). Knowing their
intention, Jesus went ahead to heal the man with the
shrivelled hand. He then challenged their interpretation of
the law of the Sabbath by asking them whether it is lawful
to do good or to do evil, to save life or to destroy it on the
Sabbath. To this, they had no response.
Do you protect the law out of your love for God or as
sheer legalism which is aimed at pulling others down? Its
amazing how the Pharisees who claimed to be upholding
the law did not notice that their intention to pull Jesus down
also means the breaking of the law. Obey the
commandments of God from a pure heart, not from any
intention of judging others or running them down.
 Birthday Blessing: If they obey and serve him, they will
spend the rest of their days in prosperity and their
years in contentment. Luke 36:11
RBT Passage: Proverbs 18-20
"They that have delight in the Sabbath of God, shall find
delight in the God of the Sabbath."  John Wells
L187
Saturday, July 6 Romans 7:24-8:4
DELIVERANCE FROM THE LAW
Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who
are in Christ Jesus, because through Christ Jesus the law of
the Spirit who gives life has set you free from the law of sin
and death. Romans 8:1-2, NIV
other taught Fola and Folu to always tell her the
truth no matter the circumstances. One day, Folu
met Fola where he was trying to bury Mothers
favourite chinaware that got broken in his hand. Folu
threatened to report to their mother except he agreed to do
his unpleasant chores for him as a reward for keeping his
secret. Fola continued to be enslaved by Folu until he
decided to open up to Mother one day. His confession
brought him freedom from the yoke of Folu's slavery and
from a guilty conscience.
In this passage, Paul lamented his wretchedness in
being bound to the flesh that is subject to death. But he
saw a ray of hope in the Lord Jesus Christ who delivered
him. He then concluded that there is no condemnation for
those who are in Christ because they have been delivered
from the law of sin and death. What sin are you indulging in
for which the devil has enslaved you hitherto? Come out
clean before God; embrace Christs offer of deliverance
from the law of sin and death. Allow the Spirit of God to
liberate you as you embrace deliverance in Christ and
continue to live a life without condemnation.
 Birthday Blessing: For sin shall not be master over you,
for you are not under law but under grace. Rom 6:14
RBT Passage: Proverbs 21-23
"When the yoke is broken, the burden is removed."
 Lailah Gifty Akita
M188
Sunday, July 7 Matthew 5:13-20
INTERPLAY OF SALT, LIGHT, AND RIGHTEOUSNESS
For I tell you that unless your righteousness surpasses that
of the Pharisees and the teachers of the law, you will
certainly not enter the kingdom of heaven. Matthew 5:20
or the influence of salt to be felt in food, the salt must
come in contact with the food item. In the same vein,
lights impact is more significant in the face of darkness.
This is instructive for Christian living. The decadence in the
world is not a threat to our Christian influence; rather, it gives
our influence the necessary prominence. In His sermon on the
mount, Jesus used the salt and light metaphors to illustrate
the roles of His followers in this perverse generation. He also
warned against inefficiency, wrong positioning and withdrawal
that can result in loss of influence. Jesus charged His disciples
not to play holier than thou like the Pharisees and the Scribes
who were known for pseudo-righteousness.
Do you lead a withdrawn life because you think you are
holier than everyone around you and you dont want to
become polluted by them? Then, you may have to repent
and trust God for your righteousness to surpass that of the
Pharisees and the Scribes. In the face of decadence, pause
and think about the expectation of God over you as the salt
and the light in that context. Tap into divine resources and
influence your world for a positive change towards kingdom
advancement.
 Birthday Blessing: I When you walk through the fire, you
shall not be burned, nor shall the flame scorch you.
Isaiah 43:2
RBT Passage: Proverbs 24-26
"We are a debtor to every man to give him the gospel in the
same measure in which we have received it."  P. F. Bresee
F189
Monday, July 8 Deuteronomy 17:8-11
OBEY JUDICIAL RULINGS AT ONCE
Be careful to do everything they instruct you to do.
Deuteronomy 17:10b, NIV
he judiciary, those who serve as judge over people,
have been invested with the final authority to declare
the fate of people in the court of law. They base their
judgement on the constitution of the nation or the
constitution of the area within their jurisdiction. Therefore, it
is expected that those who come before the judges are to
accept and act in accordance with their final decision.
From the passage, God 0chose judges to handle conflicts
among the children of Israel while the priests were to handle
difficult cases. He also instructed the Israelites to act promptly
and in accordance with the decision of the priests and judges
as the final verdict (vs. 9-10). The Church today has elders who
work with the church pastors to resolve conflicts in the church.
It is important that churches should have spirit-filled persons
who can handle conflicts without bias and with the fear of God.
The admonition from todays passage is to recognise and be
ready to obey the final decision of such council, believing their
decision is based on Gods Word and led by the Holy Spirit. We
should also strive to resolve conflicts among people around us
because God has also given every believer the ministry of
reconciliation. Are there unresolved conflicts around you? Do
something about it today.
 Birthday Blessing: ...I will strengthen you and help you; I
will uphold you with my righteous right hand. Isaiah
41:10
RBT Passage: Proverbs 27-29
"The law is not meant to destroy us. But our disobedience
leads to our own destruction. ? Lailah Gifty Akita
T190
Tuesday, July 9 Mark 9:42-48
HANDLING TEMPTATION
It is better to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye
than to have two eye and be thrown into fire. Mark 9:47b
aratio R. Palmer wrote "Yield not to Temptation" one
of the most popular Baptist hymns to remind
believers of the need to take their stand even in
difficult situation. The first stanza talks about how striving
to win one battle helps in gathering confidence to win
another. It grieves Gods heart when people fall into sin
because every act of sin has its consequence. In the
passage, Jesus denounced anyone who causes any of the
little ones to fall into sin. His assertion that it is better to
lose a part of ones body than to lose the kingdom of God
shows that we must flee sin at all cost. God is not
interested in His children losing their body parts, but He
wants us to let go of anything that will lead us to sin.
No matter the temptation that comes our way, Gods
expectation is for Christians never to yield. He wants you to
deny yourself of whatever will lead you to sin, no matter
how important it may be. This may be friends, offers, worldly
things, receiving help from corrupt sources and lots more.
Tell God about your struggles with sin and ask Him to help
you overcome temptations in order to remain holy and pure
till He comes.
 Birthday Blessing: You will go out in joy and be led forth
in peace; the mountains and hills will burst into song
before you, and all the trees of the field will clap their
hands. Isaiah 55:12
RBT Passage: Proverbs 30-31
"The safest road to hell is the gradual one  the gentle slope,
soft...without milestones, without signposts. ? C. S. Lewis
H191
Wednesday, July 10 Leviticus 19: 11-18
LIVING WITH THE NEIGHBOURS
but love your neighbour as yourself. Leviticus 19:18b, NIV
he world is full of evil; people live for themselves and
work toward destroying the image of others, not
minding the consequences of their action. Deeds of
kindness are so scarce and rear that any act of kindness
seems so remarkable. The question now is will the world
continue to live with this cruel and inhuman lifestyle? How
can one make a difference?
The Israelites received a command from God not to
steal, lie, deceive, defraud, curse, pervert justice, show
favouritism, hate in their heart, or do anything evil against
their neighbour. God also instructed them to love their
neighbour as themselves. Jesus Christ gave this same
command in Matthew 22:39, meaning that God wants us to
love our neighbours and live peaceably with everyone
around us. Love, apparently, is the antidote to conquer
wickedness. With love you can make a difference by adding
value to the lives of people around you and modelling Christ
like character for them to emulate. Some people may prove
difficult to relate with, especially unbelievers, but according
to todays study, God wants us to love regardless.
 Birthday Blessing: And God will meet all your needs
according to his riches of his glory in Christ Jesus.
Philippians 4:19
RBT Passage: Ecclesiastes 1-4
The good neighbour looks beyond the external accidents
and discerns their inner qualities that make all men
human, and therefore brothers. Martin Luther King, Jr.
T192
Thursday, July 11 1 Thessalonians 5:12-18
LIVING WITH BELIEVERS
And we urge you brothers, warn those who are idle,
encourage the timid, help the weak, be patient with
everyone. 1 Thessalonians 5:14
rs Martins is a rash and impatient woman. She
attends church religiously, but snubs other church
members and picks offence when people
comment about her attitude. However, her turning point
came when she encountered a friendly women at her office
who modelled the Christian virtues of love, kindness,
tolerance and patience. God used that woman to explain to
her how important it is to relate well with other believers
wherever one is.
Paul instructs the church in Thessaloniki to respect
those who work among them and live peaceably with each
other. He also urges them to avoid idleness, encourage the
timid, help one another and be kind to one another. They
are also to make joy, prayer and thanksgiving a lifestyle. As
members of Gods family, believers should live together
peacefully, and help one another in every way possible. Do
you have a rift with any believer around you? Make every
effort to settle it amicably today.
 Birthday Blessing: May God give you heavens dew and
earth riches-an abundance of grain and of new wine.
Genesis 27:28
RBT Passage: Ecclesiastes 5-8
Believe that every human feels pleasure in doing good to
another. Thomas Jefferson
M193
Friday, July 12 Mark 10:2-9
THE UNBREAKABLE MARITAL VOW
Therefore what God has joined together, let man not
separate. Mark 10:9, NIV
arriage is a sacred union between a man and a
woman which God instituted. The woman was
made out of man as his suitable helper and
companion (Genesis 2:18). But after mankind fell into sin
things fell apart, and people started modifying Gods law to
suit their purpose. One of such modification is the
permission of separation in marriage.
The Pharisees, in the passage, appear to believe so
much in the Law of Moses but used the law to fulfil their
selfish desires. They assert that the Law of Moses permits
them to divorce their wives, but Jesus led them back to
Gods original plan when He instituted marriage. He made
them understand that God intends the man and the woman
to become one flesh, without giving room for separation.
Jesus Christ pointed out that Moses gave them that
approval because of the hardness of their heart. Any
Christian who wants to enter into marriage must
understand that marriage vows are unbreakable no matter
the challenges. Marriage is a serious issue. Pray very well
for God's leading before entering into marriage and when
you are sure you are in Gods will, commit your union into
Gods hand for its success and sustenance.
 Birthday Blessing: May he give you the desire of your
heart and make all your plans succeed. Psalm 20:4
RBT Passage: Ecclesiastes 9-12
Your marriage vows are most important in those moments
when they are most difficult to keep. --Davewillis.org
M194
Saturday, July 13 Matthew 5:33-37
LET YES BE YES; NO, NO
Simply let your Yes be Yes and your No, No anything
beyond this comes from the evil one. Matthew 5:37, NIV
wearing and making of oaths have become a
common practice in our world today. There are times
people will not believe what others tell them unless
they swear or enter into an oath in other to hold them
bound by their words. We often hear people say, Can you
swear that you are telling the truth? This may be generally
accepted but it is against biblical teachings and should not
be practiced by believers whose lives are based on biblical
principles.
In our passage, Jesus took the people through what
they already know in the law about keeping the oaths they
make. But He went a step further by commanding them not
to swear at all  whether by heaven, earth or Jerusalem.
They are to simply let their yes be yes and no, no. A
Christian should always be known for his or her truthfulness
and honesty. We should not wait until we are placed on
oath before we say the truth, whole truth and nothing but
the truth. Our words should always be our bound.
 Birthday Blessing: The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ
will be with your spirit. Amen. Philippians 4:23
RBT Passage: Song of Solomon 1-4
It is not the oath that makes us believe the man, but the
man the oath. --Aeschylus
S195
Sunday, July 14 Matthew 5:21-32
COMMIT TO LOVE EACH OTHER
Leave you gift there in front of the altar. First go and be
reconciled to them; then come and offer your gift. Matthew
5:24 NIV
he lyrics of a popular song on love say Love one
another, for love is of God. And he who loveth is born
of God and knows God. But he who loveth not does
not know God. Love is a term that several scholars have
found difficult to define or find a synonym for. Loving
someone is beyond emotional feelings; it is rooted in
selfless sacrifice and acts of kindness.
The Israelites have learnt from the Ten Commandment
not to murder but Jesus went further to state that anyone
who is angry with his brother or uses any word of contempt
for his brother will be judged and anyone who calls
someone a fool will be in danger of hell. He also
admonished them to settle matters quickly with their
adversaries and avoid going to court. Adultery of any sort
and divorce were to be avoided because they are sins
before God. Learn to weigh the effect of your actions before
embarking on them because the Lord will punish all evil
deeds. Let love be your song every day, everywhere and at
all times.
 Birthday Blessing: Grace and peace to you from God
our father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 2 Corinthians 1:2
RBT Passage: Song of Solomon 5-8
Our job is to love others without stopping to inquire
whether or not they worth it. --Thomas Merton
T196
Monday, July 15 Leviticus 24:16-22
RESTRAIN YOUR ANGER
If anyone takes the life of a human being, he must be put to
death. Leviticus 24:17
ne fateful day, Tolulope had just finished frying
plantain in the kitchen, when her brothers came into
the kitchen and took one of the fried plantain. In
anger, she poured the hot oil she had used to fry on his
face. Though, her brother was taken to the hospital and he
recovered, the initial wound became a permanent scar on
his face.
Anger can make us to take regrettable actions. In
anger, some people take the life of another person or
animal, or disfiguring their body parts. These are costly
actions that cannot be reversed. In the Old Testament God
wanted the people to realise the gravity of such actions and
to value human life, so He commanded that those who kill
or disfigure others should be repaid in their coin. God also
commanded that those who blaspheme should be stoned
to death. Though the forgiving love of God forbids the
believer from getting revenge, the moral truths from this
passage remains valid in our time. We must not let anger
lead us into taking human life, hurting others, or destroying
other peoples properties. Learn to restrain your anger
today, do not let it lead you to making an irreparable
mistake.
 Birthday Blessing: I will make you into a great nation,
and I will bless you; I will make your name great, and
you will be a blessing. Genesis 12:2
RBT Passage: Isaiah 1-3
For every minute you remain angry, you give up sixty
seconds of peace of mind. -Ralph Waldo Emerson
O197
Tuesday, July 16 Acts 6:8-15
FILLED WITH GRACE
But they could not stand up against the wisdom the Spirit
gave him as he spoke.Acts 6:10, NIV
little Christian girl name Ruth had a passion for
martyrdom. She grew up in China, where her parents
were missionaries. She used to pray every night that
the Lord will make her a martyr before she clocked twentyone. Rosa, her sister always thought of how horrid her
prayer point was. Every night whenever Ruth prayed, Rosa
would say, Lord, dont listen to her.
While we do not have to pray for martyrdom like Ruth,
we should however, desire to imitate the boldness of those
who have given their lives for the sake of the Gospel.
Stephen, the first Christian martyr, left us an example of a
godly, courageous witness. Notice how he is described in
verse 5, Stephen, a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit.
And in verse 8 we read more, Now Stephen, a man full of
Gods grace and power did great wonders and miraculous
signs among the people. Though Stephen was an ordinary
man, he made himself totally available to God. When God
by His Spirit fills a person, he or she becomes powerful in
His hands. He or she receives Gods wisdom and strength
that is supernatural. You and I can begin to experience the
same anointing that Stephen had, if we will, like him,
surrender ourselves into Gods hand for His use.
 Birthday Blessing: I will bless those who bless you,
and whoever curses you I will curse; and all peoples on
earth will be blessed through you. Gen 12:2-3
RBT Passage: Isaiah 4-8
Godly character is the basis for courageous witness for
Jesus Christ, no matter what the results. -Steven J. Cole
A198
Wednesday, July 17 Matthew 6:1-6
TRANSFORMED GIVING AND PRAYING
But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand
know what your right hand is doing." Matt 6:3, NIV
company in America wanted shoppers to pay
attention to them, so they advertised to give free
fabulous prizes to a randomly chosen winner but the
person must follow the rule of the game. If a participant
fails to meet the qualifications, then the company may
disqualify such individual.
In Gods company, there are transformational prizes,
far more fabulous than has ever been offered by any
organization. These prizes will be given freely to people who
obey the rules of the kingdom. In the gospel of Matthew
chapter 6, Jesus is challenging us not to make noise with
our charitable acts or prayer. Rather, we should be quiet
about it in obedience to the Lord. We must understand that
prayer and giving that truly touches the heart of God and
changes the world comes from a heart that is passionately
dependent on God. Alms giving and prayers are a great
privilege and responsibility for all believers. The
opportunities God has given to us should not become a
weapon for oppressing others. Rather, it should be a means
of pointing people to Christ. What are those things God has
blessed you with? The only way to appreciate God for those
things is by blessing others through them. Make a
conscious effort to bless someone around you today.
 Birthday Blessing: Pursue, for you shall surely overtake
them and without fail recover all... I Samuel 30:8
RBT Passage: Isaiah 9-11
Authentic Prayer and Alms giving is practiced in private not
performed in public. - Michael Carino
A199
Thursday, July 18 Lamentations 3:25-33
THE LORD HONOURS PATIENCE
It is good to wait quietly for the salvation of the LORD.
Lamentations 3:26
five year old girl asked her mum how long it would be
before her family will move into their new house.
Since six weeks is hard for a five year old to grasp,
she took her to a wall calendar and showed her how
long until moving day. After then, each day, as she marks
off calendar squares one by one, she could see how long
before the waiting is over.
Waiting is hard work and, at times, can even test our
faith. It is especially difficult when there are no guarantees
that our waiting will ever end in this lifetime. Scripture offers
plenty of examples of saints who never got weary of waiting
for God. They are Gods people who chose not to do things in
their own way. Gods goodness is promised to those who wait
patiently for Him! The Lord honours patience, no matter how
long. Regardless of how hopeless things appear to us, even
when it seems to cost us everything. God is able to do far
more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to
His power at work within us (Ephesians 3:20). When we wait
for Him, we will never be disappointed. What are those areas
that God is requesting your patience? Know that God does
everything for a reason and He will surely fulfil His promises
in your life.
 Birthday Blessing: : Tell the righteous it will be well
with them, for they will enjoy the fruit of their deeds.
Isaiah 3:10
RBT Passage: Isaiah 12-14
"To us, waiting is wasting. To God waiting is working."
-- Loure Giglio
A200
Friday, July 19 Romans 13:1-10
LOVE YOUR NEIGHBOURS
Love does no harm to a neighbor. Therefore, love is the
fulfillment of the law. Romans 13:10
young lady took a woman off a street where she was
wounded. She cleaned and dressed her sores but the
woman kept insulting the young lady. Finally, the
woman asked the young lady, why did you do this? Not
everyone behaves like you. Who taught you? The young lady
replied, My God taught me. The woman said she wanted
to know her God. The young lady kissed her on the forehead
and said, You already know my God. My God is called
love.
Love is an incredible thing. The amazing thing about it is
what Paul said this love we extend to one another fulfils and
summarizes the rest of the law. All of these commandments
hinge on how we treat others. If we love then we will not
murder, steal and covet our neighbour's things. Love was
initiated by God for mans redemption. Because of God's
great love for us, God sent Jesus into humanity to recue
mankind from the power of darkness and bring us into
fellowship with Him. In the same way, as believers, we ought
to love one another, so that we can prove to the world that
we belong to God indeed. Our love for one another shows
that we belong to the truth because, "God lives in us and His
love is made complete in us" (I John 4:12).
 Birthday Blessing: And the gentiles shall come to thy
light, and kings to the brightness of thy rising-
Isaiah 60:3
RBT Passage: Isaiah 15-19
"Everybody you meet is fighting a battle you know nothing
about. Be kind always." -- Anonymous
A201
Saturday, July 20 Matthew 22:34-40
THE GREATEST COMMANDMENTS
Jesus replied: Love the Lord your God with all your heart
and with all your soul and with all your mind. Matthew
22:37
f you were to ask me which classroom rule is most
important, I would say that the most important rule is to
respect and obey your teacher and the second is very
much like it - be kind and show respect for your fellow
students. If we would just follow those two rules, there
really wouldn't be a need for any more.
In today's passage, one of the teachers of the religious
law asked Jesus, Of all the commandments, which is the
most important? Jesus responded by saying, The most
important commandment is this: The Lord our God is the
one and only Lord. You must love the Lord your God with all
your heart, all your soul, all your mind, and all your
strength. The second is equally important: Love your
neighbour as yourself. There is no other commandment
greater than these." If we critically examine Jesus'
response, we will discover that by keeping these two
commandments we have actually kept the rest. If we love
God genuinely there are a lot of things we will not do and if
we also love our neighbours as ourselves we will not be
eager to do evil towards them. How deep is your love for
God? Are there other things sharing your heart with God?
The depth of our love for God determines our height in Him.
 Birthday Blessing: For He satisfies the thirsty and fills
the hungry with good things- Psalm 107:9
RBT Passage: Isaiah 20-24
"God created you for the first and greatest commandment,
to be a lover of God."  Sam Storms
I202
Sunday, July 21 Matthew 5:38-48
PRACTICE LOVE TOWARD ALL
But I tell you, love your enemies and pray for those who
persecute you Matthew 5:44
social worker shared her work experience with a
particular church in Nigeria. She spoke about how she
helped the less privileged in India. After the speech, a
member of the audience who seemingly wanted to assist
her in her great work, asked, You have done so much to
make the world a better place. What can we do to support
you? The woman smiled and simply said love your
neighbour as much as you can. That is the best you can
do. The woman kept mute because her neighbour probably
was not in her good book.
Our passage this morning gives us two reasons to love
our enemies. The first is out of obedience to Christ. It is a
command from Christ to His disciples. It is an instruction,
not a recommendation or a word of advice. If we profess to
be Christians and we consider ourselves followers of Jesus,
then we will want to do what He says. The second reason is
to imitate our Heavenly Father. As Christians we are Gods
adopted children. We are His sons and daughters. Jesus
encourages us to imitate our Fathers unconditional love.
The Holy Spirit can give us the ability to love our enemies
day by day. The power of Gods Holy Spirit is able to help us
love the unlovable, if only we let Him.
 Birthday Blessing: I will send you grain, new wine and
oil, enough to satisfy you fully. Joel 2:19
RBT Passage: Isaiah 25-28
"Love is the only force capable of transforming an enemy to
a friend."  Martin Luther King, Jr.
A203
Monday, July 22 Psalm 1
WALK BY THE WORD AND PROSPER
He is like a tree planted by streams of water, which yields
its fruit in season and whose leaf does not wither. Whatever
he does prospers Psalms 1:3
boy was raised in a broken home. He carried the scars for
many years and decided never to forgive his dad. This boy
was introduced to a 40-Minute Bible Study on
Forgiveness: Breaking the Power of the Past. As he progressed,
he began to face the difficult reality that he needed to extend
forgiveness to his dad. Gods Word penetrated his heart; the
Holy Spirit brought him to the reality of the forgiveness he
received through salvation. He forgave his Dad and through him,
the family was restored and revitalized.
This is exactly the way Gods word prospers a soul. God
says that the person, who lives according to His Word will
be like a tree planted by streams of water (Psalm 1:3).
Trees planted by rivers do well. Their soil is fertile and they
bear much fruit. Such a tree does not have to worry when
the heat arises or the drought comes. It is secure because
it has a consistent water source that is independent of the
weather. Such is the picture; and so it is with the blessed
man. He is graciously planted into a relationship with the
Almighty. And whether he endures seasons of much or little,
rain or drought, peace or calamity, the fountain of living
water continually nourishes him. He will not wither nor will
he be fearful; he will be spiritually prosperous and fruitful.
 Birthday Blessing: But you are a chosen people, a royal
priesthood . 1 Peter 4:9
RBT Passage: Isaiah 29-31
"Gods law is our pleasure when the God of the law is our
God."  Charles H. Spurgeon
A204
Tuesday, July 23 Jeremiah 17:5-8
GODLY TRUST LEADS TO FRUITFUL LIFE
But blessed is the one who trusts in the Lord, whose
confidence is in him Jeremiah 17:7
young man went to work with some poor people in a
certain village. He was deeply impressed by one old
man who, despite having no running water, no
electricity and little food, was so joyful. How come you are
so happy when you have so little? asked the young man.
Because I know Jesus, replied the old man. But I know
Jesus as well. No, you might know about Jesus in your
head, but not in your heart.
Godly trust simply means having Jesus at the centre of
your heart. It means allowing the Lord to take the lead while
you follow. Our joy as Christians should not be rooted in
what we possessed. Rather, we should put our trust in
Jesus Christ the creator, and sustainer of the universe. The
call to trust in the Lord comes to us because, 1) we are not
our own, we belong to God. 2) God has a plan for His people
and we need to find how He wants us to fit into it. 3)
Trusting in man undermines our relationship with Him.
God's primary desire is to deepen our relationship with Him.
The first blessing of trusting God is that we have direct
access to divine resources. As we put our roots down in God
we develop our capacity to draw strength from Him.
 Birthday Blessing  I will be an enemy to your
enemies and will oppose those who oppose you.
Exodus 23:22
RBT Passage: Isaiah 32-34
"To trust God in the light is nothing, but trust him in the
dark, that is faith."  Charles H. Spurgeon
A205
Wednesday, July 24 Matthew 18:15-20
SETTLE DIFFERENCES FACE TO FACE
"If your brother sins against you, go and show him his fault,
just between the two of you. If he listens to you, you have
won your brother over. Matthew 18:15, NIV
ace to face communication seems to get harder every
day. Our society is moving further away from face to
face communication. The invention of writing a letter
to someone, telephone call, email, texting are alien to our
practices in conflict resolution. Now, if you are mad at
someone, you can just Tweet about it, and the whole world
knows. But this is not what Jesus taught.
Christians are admonished to handle conflicts carefully.
The first step is to address the matter with the other person
personally. You may first pray about the conflict you are having
before you address it with that person. Go into prayer humbly.
Ask God to show you where you are wrong. Ask for wisdom to
help you identify the parts of the conflict that you own, and
work on those things before you talk to the person. When
matters are handled privately, misunderstanding can be
addressed, and there is great potential for the other person to
respond positively. In addition, a private meeting helps to avoid
the problem of gossip. Christians are called to handle disputes
in love, with a goal of restoration. Settling our differences
should be handled according to the steps listed in Matthew
18. This style of conflict resolution is based on a desire for holy
living and love for the person who has committed wrong.
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD will keep you from all
harm-- he will watch over your life. Psalm 121:7
RBT Passage: Isaiah 35-37
To be a Christian means to forgive the inexcusable because
God has forgiven the inexcusable in you.  C.S. Lewis
F206
Thursday, July 25 1 Corinthians 6:1-6
HOW BELIEVERS JUDGE GRIEVANCES
I say this to shame you. Is it possible that there is nobody
among you wise enough to judge a dispute between
believers? 1 Corinthians 6:5
once heard of two Christian brothers who have been
business partners but are now in an ugly legal battle in
the courts because of a disagreement they had. This
issue may lead to bitterness that may affect their business
as well as their home. We have seen Christian couples who
have separated and have taken each other to court. We
have also seen Christians who decided to sue their church
to court for damages they suffered. But the Bible is very
clear that it is absolutely wrong and a complete moral
failure for a Christian to ever take a fellow Christian to court
for conflict resolution. Instead, someone within the fold
should judge the matter. Paul says a day will come when
Christians will judge the world. Because of this, we should
be qualified to judge small matters in the church.
There should be at least one qualified to judge
between Christians without Christians making mockery of
their faith in a court of law. It would be better to be wronged
without getting justice than drag the matter before a court
thereby soiling the name of God. Such grievance that
cannot be settled amicably should not be heard in the
Christian fold. For those who live like the world will not
inherit Gods kingdom.
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD God will rejoice in you and
take delight in you. Isaiah 65:19
RBT Passage: Isaiah 38-40
"To err is human, to forgive, divine."  Alexander Pope
I207
Friday, July 26 Matthew 7:7-14
ASKING AND RECEIVING FAIRLY
Ask and it will be given to you, seek and you will find; knock
and the door will be opened to you. Matthew7:7
cartoon pictured a little boy kneeling in prayer.
Obviously disgruntled with the results of his prayers,
he was saying, Aunty Beauty has not gotten married,
Uncle Fame has not gotten any work, and Daddys hair is
still falling out. I am getting tired of praying for this family
without getting any result.
Many of us are like this little boy. We want instant
miracles or quick answers from the Lord. In the Sermon on
the Mount, Jesus says that whoever asks receives,
(Matthew 7:7). But Jesus goes on to say that God will not
fail to give His children good things (v. 11). So, the condition
to this promise is that what we ask for must be good in
Gods estimation. God will give advantageous gifts to His
children; He will not give us injurious things, no matter how
much we clamour for them. Our job is to understand what is
good, so that we know what to ask for. The natural mind
cannot understand this. But, when we offer ourselves as a
living sacrifice and are transformed by the renewing of our
minds, then we will be able to know God's good, pleasing
and perfect will (Romans 12:12). Then, asking for what
we need in faith, we will have all we need and fullness of joy
(John 16:24).
 Birthday Blessing: I declare this is my season to receive
uncommon testimonies and breakthroughs, in the
name of Jesus Christ.
RBT Passage: Isaiah 41-43
"Prayer can never be in excess."  Charles H. Spurgeon
A208
Saturday, July 27 Matthew 7:24-29
HEARING AND DOING
But everyone who hears these words of mine and does not
put them into practice is like a foolish man who built his
house on sand Matthew 7:26
rancis Chans illustration is relevant to today's topic. He
said, imagine I tell my son to clean his room and he
responded that he got my message. But thereafter, I
found out that he has not cleaned his room. And when I
asked why he has not cleaned his room according to my
instruction? He said, I heard you tell me to clean my room. I
love that bit of your word to me. I have memorized it and I
have been meditating on it. My sister and I have been
meeting and discussing what it might look like to clean my
room. I feel like Im really learning here. What do you think
will be the reaction of the Dad towards him?
Jesus explains that when people hear Him speak they
should respond in obedience. This means that our goal
should not be just to hear, but to respond in the right way.
Two people can sit in the same church, hearing the same
Scripture; yet one can respond with change, repentance
and growth while the other doesnt respond at all. Many of
us have access to the truth of God's word, yet it seems as if
nothing has changed in our lives. We take it in but we dont
digest it. Hearing Jesus words is not enough, the question
is, have you acted on what you heard?
 Birthday Blessing: Have nothing to do with the
fruitless deeds of darkness, but rather expose them.
Eph 5:11
RBT Passage: Isaiah 44-46
"The voice you believe will determine the future you
experience." - Steven Furtick
F209
Sunday, July 28 Matthew 7:1-6, 15-23
DISCERNING FAITH AND ACTION TOGETHER
Thus, by their fruit you will recognize them. Matt 7:20, NIV
prophet reportedly convinced his congregations that
his holy pen can make students pass their exams and
the more you pay, the higher your grades. The Bible is
very clear that in the last days, false prophets and others
who are bearing bad fruit will increase, and that we would
know these kinds of people by their fruit (Matt 7:15-20).
Fruit in a person's life can be defined as the product of a
person. This type of fruit false prophets bear is not
acceptable to Jesus Christ. Thus, we must examine
ourselves first, be on our guard and watch out for those
who are wolves in sheep's clothing in the church and
attempting to devour the innocent.
Some believers are only full of leaves like the fig tree
exposed by Jesus. Bearing no fruit is just as bad as bearing
bad fruit. What are you doing for the kingdom? Are you
active in your church? It is time to get out of your four walls
and grow an abundance of fruit. Galatians 5:22-23 defines
the spiritual fruit in someone's lives as love, joy, peace,
patience, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness and selfcontrol. As believers in Christ we are to be in the vine of
Christ Jesus and, as we do so, bear good fruit (John 15).
 Birthday Blessing: Thus says the Lord; In an
acceptable time I have heard you, and in the day of
salvation I have helped you. Isaiah 49:8
RBT Passage: Isaiah 47-49
"You cannot be saved and lack the fruits of the Spirit."
 AM Brewster
A210
Monday, July 29 1 Samuel 18:10-16
SAUL FEARS DAVID
Saul was afraid of David, because the LORD was with David
but had left Saul. 1Samuel 18:12
here was a story about a Christian who ran away from
his enemies during persecution in North Africa. He ran
into a cave and prayed to God to protect him. Not long
after, he spotted a spider weaving a web across the mouth
of the cave. When the mans pursuers arrived, they
assumed it was impossible for him to have entered into the
cave because of the web that was across the mouth of the
cave. They moved on and the man escaped from them.
Saul attempted to kill David through a plot because of
jealousy and suspicion. Saul within his heart feared David,
so he wanted David out of his presence. But the Lord was
with David and had abandoned Saul. In Saul's mind, David
was a threat to his claim to the throne and to the dynasty
he hoped to establish through Jonathan. So Saul made
David the commander of 1000 troops, sent him out to fight
risky battles, hoping that David would lose and be
discredited by the people or else be killed in battle (vv. 13,
17). David succeeded in every battle and in everything else
he did because the Lord was with him (vv. 14-16). And
David's success only made Saul fear him even more. On the
other hand, David's success in military campaigns stirred
the people to love him more and more.
 Birthday Blessing: Be fruitful and increase in number;
fill the earth and subdue it.... Genesis 1:28
RBT Passage: Isaiah 50-52
"If you are committed enough, you can make any story
work."  Saul Goodman
T211
Tuesday, July 30 1 Samuel 18:20-24, 28-30
ONE WITH GOD
Now Sauls daughter Michal was in love with David, and
when they told Saul about it, he was pleased 1 Samuel
18:20
here are people in this world that choose to hate other
people for no just reason. As long as others around
them are progressing they are filled with bitterness.
They can even go to the extent of plotting evil against these
people just to see them fail. But God has a way of dealing
with such people. He has a way of bringing their counsel to
naught. David found himself in a similar situation when the
daughter of Saul fell in love with him.
Saul wanted the downfall of David at all cost just
because God was with him. Because of his ulterior motive,
he agreed that David can marry Michal, his daughter on the
condition that he will bring one hundred foreskin of the
Philistine. This was a suicide mission because there was no
way David will get the foreskin of the Philistines without
going to war with them. Saul had forgotten that when God is
involved the impossible becomes possible. David did not
only bring hundred, he brought additional hundred to prove
to Saul that indeed God was with him. It does not matter
how many people have risen against you. All that matters is
that you have God in your camp and your victory will be
assured. When you have God on your side He will make
every evil planned against your to work for you favour.
 Birthday Blessing: ...Your descendants will take
possession of the cities of their enemies. Gen 26:17
RBT Passage: Isaiah 53-56
"The fears you dont face becomes our limits."
Robin Sharma
T212
Wednesday, July 31 1 Samuel 19:8-12
HELP FROM UNEXPECTED PLACES
So Michal let David down through a window, and he fled
and escaped. 1Samuel 19:12
he human mind can be so calculative. Many times we
consider a lot of factors and weigh the level of risk
involved before taking action. While this is not entirely
wrong, it might sometimes deny us of some things that God
has prepared for us in an unexpected package. One would
have thought that Michal will betray David because her
father turned against him, but she did not only take his
side, she also helped him escape from her father. If David
had judged Michal with her father's attitude towards him,
he might have maltreated her or decided to pay her in her
father's coin.
Michal would not have had any reason to stand for him
when all the chips were down. We should take a cue from
David's attitude. Treating people rightly should not be based
on what they have done right or wrong. It should not be
based on what their parents or children have done. It
should solely be based on our own decision to be good to
everyone at all times because you really cannot say who
God will use to bless you in time of need or save you in time
of trouble. This might look impossible, but with the help of
the Holy Spirit we can be at peace with all men irrespective
of who they are.
 Birthday Blessing: Do what is right and good, for I am
coming soon to rescue you and to display my
righteousness among you. Isaiah 56:1
RBT Passage: Isaiah 57-59
"A happy marriage is the union of two good forgivers."
 Robert Quillen
T213
Thursday, August 1 1 Samuel 20:12-17
BECOMING FRIENDS
So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David,
and Jonathan had David reaffirm his oath out of love for
him. 1 Sam. 20:16-17, NIV
ristotle said there are three kinds of friendship:
Friendship of pleasure  based on pleasure in
anothers company, or friendship of utility  based on
usefulness in association, or friendship of virtue  based on
mutual admiration. The passage shows how David and
Jonathan became intimate friends of virtue by exchanging
words of trust. Love and trust are inseparable. Jonathan gave
his trust to David. He promised David to check out whether
his father, Saul, really hated and wanted to kill David and
report to him. Jonathan also requested kindness from David
after God would have given David victory over his enemies.
God expects everyone to have a covenant relationship with
Him and replicate it by relating sincerely with others. God first
loved you by giving His Son to die for you. You are expected to
reciprocate His love by accepting the offer of His Son. Jonathan
saw the kind of relationship David shared with God and wanted
the same. Can the same be said of you? As a young person, be
careful of entering into a relationship that can lead you to sin
against your Creator. Be wary of any friendship that does not
exalt God. First, establish a covenant relationship with your
Maker and be faithful to Him. This first relationship will regulate
your relationship with others without any regret.
 Birthday Blessing: Take delight in the LORD, and he will
give you the desires of your heart. Psalm 37:4
RBT Passage: Isaiah 60-63
"The most called upon prerequisite of a friend in an
accessible ear."  Maya Angelou
A214
Friday, August 2 1 Samuel 20:18-23
JONATHAN AND DAVID PLAN RENDEZVOUS
Then Jonathan said to David: The day after tomorrow,
towards evening, go to the place where you hid when this
trouble began, and wait by the stone Ezel." 1 Sam, 20:18-19
he Block, a residential area in Redfern, Sydney, was
established in 1973. Located on land traditionally
inhabited by the Gadigal people, it quickly became
known as a place for the Indigenous community: a place
where people converge to share their stories and release
their pain. For the Stolen Generations in particular, it is a
place to reconnect with long lost family members.
In the passage, Jonathan arranged for a meeting with
David which informed whether David would stay with King
Sauls family or flee for safety. Jonathan suggested a sign
that David should look out for, either the arrows are within
reach (safety) or the arrows are beyond reach (danger). This
is the sign to ascertain Davids safety (vv 21-22). God has
also prepared a place of safety for everyone who turns to
Him. This place of safety can only be found in Christ. The
Scripture says "the name of the Lord is a strong tower: the
righteous runneth into it, and is safe (Prov. 18:10). God has
already opened His arm of love it is left for us to either accept
Him or reject Him. Beloved, how have you been preparing to
meet the Lord at His return? If human beings like Jonathan
and David could arrange for a meeting and be faithful to it,
how much more will you prepare to meet your God?
 Birthday Blessing: As a mother comforts her child, so
will I comfort you. Isaiah 66:13
RBT Passage: Isaiah 64-66
"Admonish your friends privately, but praise them openly."
- Syrus
T215
Saturday, August 3 1 Samuel 20:35-42
DAVID AND JONATHAN SEPARATE IN PEACE
Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, for we have sworn
friendship with each other in the name of the Lord 1
Sam. 20:42, NIV
eparation of loved ones, either temporarily or
permanently, from one another is not easy at all. Tears
often roll down the cheek when any separation occurs
if love exists between/among the people. The passage today
tells us that after Jonathan had verified the evil intention of
King Saul to kill David, they came together to bid themselves
farewell. Meeting with Jonathan, David paid homage to him
he bowed down before Jonathan three times. This means
that David appreciated the love Jonathan had shown him to
rescue him from his father. They kissed each other, wept
bitterly and separated in peace.
Separation from relatives or friends is inevitable, but
when it happens how should it be? The account teaches
that in any moment of separation, it should be done in
peace. This is one of the reasons the Scripture tells us to
make every effort to live in peace with all men (Hebrews
12:14; Matthew 5:9). How peaceable are you? As you go
out today, make sure you cultivate the habit of
peacemaking in your relationship with others, so that when
the need to part occurs, you will be able to part in peace.
Also make sure you appreciate those who shower you with
love. It is then you will be called a son or daughter of God.
 Birthday Blessing: He (God) will yet fill your mouth with
laughter and your lips with shouts of joy.Job 8:21, NIV
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 1-3
"If you really want to know who your friends are, just make
a mistake."  The Bible Friend
S216
Sunday, August 4 1 Sam. 18:1-5; 19:1-7
COVENANT BETWEEN TWO FRIENDS
And Jonathan made a covenant with David because he
loved him as himself. (1 Sam. 18:3, NIV)
hen two persons give their words to become
friends, the agreement is binding. The scripture for
today started with Jonathans spirit becoming one
with David. David became Jonathans favourite and
Jonathan made covenant with him. To express his love
physically Jonathan gave David his robe, tunic, sword, bow
and belt. Also, Saul gave David a high rank in the army
because he won all the battles assigned to him. But later,
Saul wanted to kill David (19:1). Because Jonathan loved
David as himself, he exposed his fathers evil intention and
warned him to be on guard. Jonathan later pleaded on
behalf of David that he should not be killed, and Saul
granted his sons request.
What attributes of a true friend can you see in the
story? A true friends spirit becomes one with his friend; a
true friend loves as himself; a true friend is loyal to his
friend; a true friend gives without reservation; a true friend
speaks well of and pleads for his friend; and also risks his
life for his friend. Are you a true friend to others and have
you found a true friend? You have to be a good friend to
find true friends. Someone said, I went out to find a friend,
but I could not find one there; I went out to be a friend and
friends were everywhere! Decide today to be a true friend
to someone.
 Birthday Blessing: Foreigners will rebuild your walls,
and their kings will serve you Isaiah 60:10a
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 4-5
"Friendship is one mind in two bodies." Mencius
W217
Monday, August 5 Deuteronomy 24:17-22
PROTECTING WIDOWS
Do not deprive the alien or the fatherless of justice, or take
the cloak of the widow as a pledge Deuteronomy 24:17
court case was instituted against a widow some years
ago in a certain city in the Northern part of Nigeria. The
widow was not able to defend herself. So, she was to
pay a ransom for the offence. The Judge noticed that the
widow would pay a ransom and because she helpless, she
could hardly meet her needs. Therefore, he volunteered to
pay the ransom on her behalf. The judge rescued the
helpless widow. In verse 17 of today's passage, God instructs
the people to protect widows like the judge did. He also gave
the children of Israel a warning not to take the cloak of the
widow as a pledge, The reason for the instruction is that the
Israelites were first slaves in Egypt before God set them free
and then instructed them to cater for others in need so that
He might bless the work of their hands.
This is what God is expecting from all His children
today. In order to attract Gods blessing, you must protect
widows and help them when necessary. You will always
have widows who will need your help around you. You need
to think and act on how to make them happy. This is what
God is commanding you to do. As you go about your
activities daily give a helping hand to at least a widow who
comes your way.
 Birthday Blessing: You will arise and have compassion
on Zion, for it is time to show favor to her, the
appointed time has come. Psalm 102:13, NIV
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 6-8
"It is difficult to see how Christianity can have a positive effect on
society if it cannot transform its own homes."  John MacArthur
A218
Tuesday, August 6 Deuteronomy 25:5-10
CONTINUING THE FAMILY LINE
If brothers are living together and one of them dies without a
son, his widow must not marry outside the family. Deut. 25:5a
ne major thing that sustains relationship is genuine
love; the kind of love that transcends the human
nature. God is interested in how relationships are
sustained, especially family relationship. So, He gave some
principles to help human kind relates in genuine love. The
text sheds light on preserving the family lineage. The
Israelites were to continue the family line by allowing the
younger brother to marry the widow of his deceased brother
and raise his first son in the name of the deceased. But if
he is not interested, the wife would go to the elders at the
gate and report the brothers refusal.
Although this is no longer in practice today but the
intention of God can be clearly seen. To us as people of grace,
the passage simply means that there is need to preserve the
faith of our fore-fathers. It is also about helping one another in
faith. As believers, we must be willing to go extra miles for
people that need our help, especially those that belong to the
family of faith. We must endeavour to look out for the best
interest of those around us, even when it seems difficult. God
expects us to build up one another in faith and love by helping
others when we can. By doing this you are preserving God's
family line. Meet someone's need today.
 Birthday Blessing: Look to the LORD and his strength;
seek his face always. 1 Chronicles 16:11
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 9-11
"Every Christian family ought to be a little church,
consecrated to Christ and wholly influenced and governed
by His Laws."  Jonathan Edwards
O219
Wednesday, August 7 Matthew 1:2-6, 16
RUTH, MOTHER OF DAVID AND JESUS
Boaz the father of Obed, whose mother was Ruth, Obed
the father of Jesse and Jesse the father of king David
Matthew 1:5b-6a, NIV
od works in ways that are sometimes beyond human
thinking. Who would have thought that He would
allow a woman from a despised tribe become a part
of the history of His only Son. The story of Ruth is a
reminder that God is always willing to do great things in
people who are willing to release themselves and trust Him.
The focus of the passage is on the genealogy of both David
and Jesus starting with Abraham. The history reveals that
Ruth was the great grandmother of David, and from David
came Jacob the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of
whom was born Jesus. In essence, Jesus was fully God, and
at the same time human, because His birth can be traced
to Ruth.
God does not write anyone off as long as such a person
is willing to accept the provision of God through Christ.
God's desire is that everyone should belong to His family by
accepting Jesus Christ as Saviour and Lord and by walking
consistently in the Spirit. Here is the good news for you if
you are not yet a member of Gods family, you can do it now
by confessing your sins, repenting of them and putting your
faith in the Lord Jesus.. Thank God if you are already a part
of Gods family and live to bring others in.
 Birthday Blessing: With long life will my satisfy you and
show you my salvation Psalm 91:16
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 12-14
"One touch of Christ is worth a lifetime of struggling."
 A.B. Simpson
G220
Thursday, August 8 Ruth 1:1-5
JOURNEYING WITHOUT GOD
After they had lived there about ten years, both Mahlon
and Kilion also died, and Naomi was left without her two
sons and her husband. (Ruth 1:4b-5, NIV)
man was commissioned as a missionary to a foreign
country and he lived there for some years. But his
parents persuaded him to leave the mission field to
get a secular job in another country which would earn him
more money to take care of them. The man yielded to the
parents persuasion. Not more than two years in his new
location, he met an untimely death. This is a danger of
journeying without God.
Todays passage gives an account of a family who left
their home land, Bethlehem, to sojourn in Moab. They left
the presence of God for a foreign country. Four members of
the family left for Moab but at the end of ten years, only
Naomi came back; her husband and two sons died in
Moab. As a child of God, do not embark on a journey God
has not instructed you. Do not take any decision God is not
involved in. Do not settle in a wrong location. Even when
everybody is doing what is wrong, choose to do what is
right. Always pray for the head of the family to decide right
because his decision can make or mar the home. Make it a
priority today and always to connect yourself to the One who
knows the future. Stay connected!
 Birthday Blessing: He will wipe away tears from your
eyes. There will be no more death or mourning or crying
or pain,... Revelation 21:4
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 15-17
"Faith-healing is grand, but faith-enduring is grander."
 C. H. Spurgeon
A221
Friday, August 9 Ruth 1:19-22
A DECISION TO RETURN
So Naomi returned from Moab accompanied by Ruth the
Moabitesarriving in Bethlehem (Ruth 1:22, NIV)
young lady was ill-treated by her father because of the
arrival of a second wife to their home. She eventually ran
away from home but she lost everything she had along the
way, including her peace. One day, she met the Lord at a meeting
and decided to return home. Her returning home brought mixed
feelings of joy and sadness, but her peace was restored.
This story is similar to what the Scripture today unravels.
Naomi, having experienced the death of her husband and
two sons in Moab, she returned to Bethlehem with sadness.
Though Naomi came back with Ruth, her joy was not
expressed. While the whole town celebrated with her by
calling her Naomi which means the loveable, my delight or
beautiful, she said she should be called Mara which means
bitter. She thought the Almighty God has afflicted her and
brought misfortune on her. Todays message is calling on
everyone who has gone on a strange journey' to return.
Beloved youngsters, perhaps you are already embarking or
have embarked on a journey without God, it is time for you to
return. Are you into a relationship God did not approve?
Please, return! Are you doing anything presently that you
know God has not instructed you? Please, return! Do not wait
until disaster strikes. Return now from wherever you have
gone that God has not instructed you. Return!
 Birthday Blessing: I will repay you for the years the
locusts have eaten Joel 2:25a
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 18-21
"To be biblically evangelistic, we must be certain that what
we do leads to faith, not just decisions."  Jim Ehrhard
A222
Saturday, August 10 Ruth 2:5-13
A WARM WELCOME
So Boaz said to Ruth, My daughter, listen to me. Dont go
and glean in another field and dont go away from here.
Stay here with my servant girls. (Ruth 2:8, NIV)
. E. Macartney said, Give me your tired, your poor,
your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, the
wretched refuse of your teeming shore, send these,
the homeless, tempest-tost, to me: I lift my lamp beside the
golden door. This is a heart full of warm welcome! Boaz, in
the passage, gave a warm welcome to Ruth in his fields.
After inquiring who Ruth was, he allowed her to glean
among the sheaves behind the harvesters. She was also
allowed to get a drink from the water jars the men have
filled. Afterwards, she paid obeisance to Boaz for the kind
welcome (v. 10). In response, Boaz made reference to the
kindness Ruth had shown to her mother-in-law. This is is a
picture of the Yoruba adage which says, If you pour water
before you, you will step on wet ground.
The message is clear here that as a child of God, hospitality
should be a lifestyle because by doing this, you may entertain
angels without knowing it (Hebrew 13:2). Ruth counted herself a
stranger, yet she received a warmly welcome from Boaz. Be
ready to welcome the weak, poor, wretched and homeless into
your home, and relieve them of their unpalatable experiences.
Decide to act this out today as you go about your activities.
 Birthday Blessing: You will go out in joy and be led
forth in peace; the mountains and hills will burst into
song before you... Isaiah 55:12
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 22-24
"Hospitality pictures aspects of Gods generous love in the
gospel."  Jonathan Leeman
C223
Sunday, August 11 Ruth 1:6-11, 14-18
INTIMATE FAMILY TIES
But Ruth replied, Dont urge me to leave you or to turn
back from you. Where you go I will go, and where you stay I
will stay. Ruth 1:16, NIV
ames Dobson told a story of a family he visited some years
back, and learnt there how a family is supposed to
function. As one of the guests, twenty people were invited
for the dinner, and half-dozen grandkids were present. Every
person is served with incredible meal. One might wonder how
they had time to prepare such a spread. Well, the family
believed life gets difficult when we live it in isolation. When
Naomi decided to return to Bethlehem, having heard that God
had visited the town, she urged her two daughters-in-law to
return to their people in Moab. While Orpah returned to her
people, Ruth cleaved to her mother-in-law and requested that
she should not entreat her to go back. When Naomi saw that
Ruth insisted, she let her have her way.
Have you ever experienced the difficulty of being
isolated at one particular time or the other? If yes, then you
must have learnt that life is better lived among others, not
in isolation. If you want to live a better life in a family setting
or otherwise, you must be ready to sacrifice like Ruth so
that you can reap the reward therein. You must be ready to
be involved in the life of every member of your immediate
family, members of Gods family and others. What will you
do today to be involved positively in people's lives?
 Birthday Blessing: (Your) life will be brighter than noonday
and (your) darkness will become like morning. (Job 11:17)
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 25-27
"As God by creation made two of one, so again by marriage
He made one of two."  Thomas Adams
J224
Monday, August 12 Ezekiel 16:8-14
GODS CHOSEN BRIDE
 When I looked at you and saw that you were old enough
for loveI gave you my solemn oath and entered into a
covenant with you...and you became mine. Ezekiel 16:8
he ability to make a choice is one of God's gifts to
humanity. God gave man the opportunity to make
decisions and choices as he deem fit. God also makes
choices and when He does, it is not based on any human
criterion. In today's passage, God decided to choose the
children of Israel as His own people. He spread the corner of
His garment over them and covered their nakedness. He also
made an oath and promised to enter into a covenant with
them.
God made His people pure and dressed them to glorify
Himself. Gods people became beautiful and rose to be a
queen. Their fame spread among nations on account of
their beauty. The love of God is encompassing. It purifies
and beautifies. For every one that has accepted the love of
God through Christ, God is willing to clean such person from
all forms of dirt and disgrace. He is willing to add meaning
and colour to such live. He alone knows what our lives need
to be beautiful, but we must first be willing to accept His
love for us. Are you searching for beauty and fame that
transcend this life? Then come to Jesus today. Only a life in
Christ can be truly beautiful and totally pure.
 Birthday Blessing: I will not bring on you any of the
diseases I brought on the Egyptians, for I am the LORD
who heals you. Exodus 15:26
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 28-30
"Unconditional love is an illogical notion, but such a great
and powerful one."  A. J. Jacobs
T225
Tuesday, August 13 Deuteronomy 24:1-4
STATUS OF DIVORCED WOMEN IN ISRAEL
Then her first husband, who divorced her, is not allowed to
marry her again after she has been defiled Deut. 24:4a
arriage is a human relationship instituted by God.
God is so concerned about this institution that He
gave detailed instructions about how to run its
affairs. Today we learnt that God gave instructions on how
to handle marital relationship. When a man finds any form
of uncleanness in his wife, he can divorce her and marry
another. However, after the divorce if the woman remarried
and for some reasons divorced again, the first man she
married can no longer marry her. This is to create a sense
of decency in marriage. Any man or woman who wishes to
save his or her marriage must be decent and pure. There is
also need for orderliness and a sense of responsibility in
marriage. Before one takes the step to divorce, one must
have count the cost and weigh the consequences.
Our focus today goes beyond marriage between a man
and a woman. It speaks of your personal relationship with
God. You are married to the Lord when you surrender your
life to Jesus Christ. The moment you refuse to obey the dayto-day guidance of the Lord from the Scripture and others,
you are at the verge of divorce. Have you ever given your
Lord a certificate of divorce? Today, take a humble step to
withdraw it and get married to Him again.
 Birthday Blessing: ...because I love you, I will give
people in exchange for you.... Isaiah 43:4
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 31-32
"When I have learnt to love God better than my earthly
dearest, I shall love my earthly dearest better than I do
now."  C. S. Lewis
M226
Wednesday, August 14 1 Corinthians 7:1-11
SUSTAIN MARITAL LOVE AND FIDELITY
To the married I give this command (not I, but the Lord): A
wife must not separate from her husband. 1 Cor 7: 10, NIV
hen Mr and Mrs Henry Ford celebrated their golden
wedding anniversary, a reporter asked them, To
what do you attribute your fifty years of successful
married life? The formula, said Mr. Ford, is the same
formula I have always used in making carsjust stick to one
model. Apostle Paul, in todays passage, gave some pieces
of advice to the Christians at Corinth about sustaining marital
love and fidelity. He said that it is good for singles and
widows/widowers to stay unmarried as he was, but if they
could not guard their passion, they should get married. It is
better to marry than to burn with passion or be tempted with
sexual immorality. On the other hand, to the married, he
instructed them not to separate for any reason (vv 10-11).
Unmarried persons are to consider chastity and stay
away from sex before marriage. Those that cannot stay away
should get married because sex is only acceptable and godly
within the confine of marriage. The married should stay
faithful to their spouses and never consider divorce for any
reason. In all, believers should strive to build homes that will
become models for others. Beyond marriage, you should
endeavour to build relationships on absolute trust and
unconditional love for others. Let love and trust be the
foundation of your relationship with others today.
 Birthday Blessing: Nations will come to your light, and
kings to the brightness of your dawn. Isaiah 60:3
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 33-36
"Sex is from God. He gave it to us as a gift. It is a wedding
gift."  Bill Shannon
W227
Thursday, August 15 1 Peter 3:1-9
HUSBANDS AND WIVES, JOINT HEIRS
Husbandsbe considerate as you live with your wives, and
treat them with respect as the weaker partner and as heirs
with you of the gracious gift of life... (1Peter 3:7, NIV)
n 2005, Guinness Book of World Records said that Percy
and Florence Arrowsmith held two recordsthe longest
marriage of a living couple (80 years) and having the largest
married couples aggregate age (205 years). Both Mr. and Mrs.
Arrowsmith have since died, but they left good advice. Florence
said, You must never go to sleep bad friends. If youve had a
quarrel, you make it up. Never be afraid to say, sorry. Percy
had slightly more humorous advice. He said the secret to his
long marriage was just two words, Yes, dear.
The instruction today is for both husbands and wives to
have responsibilities in marriage. The wife should be submissive
to husband. The husband should as well live with his wife with
understanding and respect because they are joint heirs of God's
gift. The salvation that we are offered through Christ does not
take to account anyones background, tribe, gender, race or
other yardsticks. We are one in Christ Jesus. As a wife, you must
be submissive to your husband. As a husband, you must live
with your wife with understanding, respect and love. As a single
person, you need to be rooted in the God-given principles of
marriage, so that your home will glorify God. Make up your mind
to follow divine principles of marriage.
 Birthday blessing: Your beginnings will seem humble,
so prosperous will your future be. (Job 8:7)
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 37-39
"When two people know, accept and fulfill their varying but
complementary responsibilities, oneness in marriage is
promoted."  Wayne Mack
I228
Friday, August 16 Ruth 4:9-12
BOAZ BUYS NAOMIS PROPERTY
Then Boaz said to the elders and all the people, You are
witnesses today that I have bought from the hand of Naomi
all that belonged to Elimelech.... Ruth 4:9, NASB
s a child, Queen Victoria did not understand that she
would ascend to the throne of England. As a result, she
never took her training and studies serious. In frustration,
her teachers decided to tell her that she would become the
Queen of England someday. As soon as she heard this, Victoria
was reported to have softly responded by saying, "Then I will be
good." She realised the gravity of her responsibility and worked
hard to fulfil it. Boaz, when he realized the seriousness of the
choice he had to make, he decided to become the kinsman
redeemer to Naomi. He did not delay to fulfil his but accepted
her responsibilities and that of the entire family. He solemnised
and gave a public testimony of the marriage contract and the
belongings he purchased. Boaz, however, without knowing,
brought himself to the lineage of Jesus Christ.
As Christians, we need to learn the art of being
responsible and determine to accept Gods divine instructions
always. We must be brave enough to fulfil promises, gladden
the hearts of the distressed, heal the broken- hearted and
cover those that are naked at anytime God brings them our
way. Taking up our responsibilities and making a public
declaration of such will strengthen the faith of others and
enable them to act likewise.
 Birthday Blessing: I will look after you and multiply you,
and fulfil my covenant with you. Leviticus 26:9
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 40-43
Let others report bad news; well share the good news.
- Woodrow Kroll
A229
Saturday, August 17 Ruth 4:13-17
RUTH AND BOAZ MARRY; OBED BORN
So Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife, and he went
in to her. And the Lord enabled her to conceive, and she
gave birth to a son. Ruth 4:13
uring the Children Sunday School class, a teacher, while
explaining the story of Creation asked: Who can tell us
what makes corn grow from a dead seed planted on a
farm? One of the children answered: it is God. Then another
child who lived on a farm shouted from the back, but fertilizer
helps. Our text today reminds us that conception is a divine act
of God. After Boaz and Ruth got married, they enjoyed their
marriage privileges. But the Bible says, And the Lord enabled
her to conceive, and she gave birth to a son. This reveals that it
was not only the romance, affection and sexual intercourse Boaz
and Ruth shared that led to conception and brought forth a son.
It was God who enabled them.
To enable means to give someone or something the
ability to do something. It also means to make possible.
Beloved, as God gave Boaz and Ruth conception, He is still
enabling people to do outstanding things today. As you
assess yourself, you need to understand that the Lord can
enable you to conceive and bring forth His desires and
purposes in all areas of life. God raises the poor from the
dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap; he seats them
with the princes of his people. {Psalms 113; 7-8}.
 Birthday Blessing: May he give you the desire of your
heart and make all your plans succeed. Psalm 20:4
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 44-46
I never have a difficulty believing miracles, since I
experienced the miracle of a change in my own heart.
- Augustine
D230
Sunday, August 18 Ruth 3:1-6, 8-12, 16-18
SUPPORT AND PROTECT MARRIAGE
Then Naomi her mother-in-law said to her, My daughter,
shall I not seek security for you, that it may be well with
you? Ruth 3:1, NASB
issus was given the sad news that her mother-inlaw had been involved in a ghastly accident along
other women. As expected, she broke down and
wept. She was later informed that her mother-in-law
survived but instead of rejoicing, Missus wailed even more
than those who had lost their loved ones. When a friend
asked her the reason for her pains, Missus responded that
her mother-in-laws survival meant a continued suffering for
her. What a sad testimony of a daughter-in-law about her
mother-in-law!
Unlike this story, the relationship between Naomi and
Ruth was cordial. Naomi was so concerned about the wellbeing of Ruth. She wanted Ruth to have a home. She
wanted her to have children within wedlock. Naomi is a
Christ-like example of how every mother-in-law and indeed
every Christian should be. Do you seek the best for your
husband, wife, children, parents, siblings, in-laws,
colleagues, or neighbours? How often do you seek for
means to make the lives of others better? Do you treat
those around you with honour and dignity? Repair any
strained relationships and seek the good of everyone
involved.
 Birthday Blessing: Commit to the Lord whatever you do,
and he will establish your plans. Proverbs 16:3 NIV
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 47-48
I want my life and marriage to look less like the world and
more like Christ. - Marquis Clarke
M231
Monday, August 19 Genesis 2:18-24
PARTNERS FROM THE BEGINNING
Then the Lord God said, It is not good for the man to be
alone; I will make him a helper suitable for him. Gen 2:18
r James Dobson reported that psychologists Cliff
Nortarius and Howard Markman studied newlyweds
over the first decade of marriage. They discovered
that couples who stayed together uttered 5 or fewer putdowns in every 100 comments to each other. But couples
who inflicted twice as many verbal wounds -- 10 or more
putdowns out of every 100 comments  later split up. Rather
than been helpers, they actually damaged each other.
In the text, God declared that it was not good for the
man to be alone. No man is designed to be an island.
Rather, every man should become the best with the help of
a partner which can be marital or otherwise. Two are better
than one...{Ecclesiastes 4:9-10}. God created a helper of
same nature; a help near man; one to cohabit with man;
and one that man should look upon with pleasure and
delight. God intended that marriage should be for building
up. Therefore, inadequacies of a man or a woman in
marriage should be catered for by their believing spouse. As
partners, they should help each other grow, develop and
become better. Partners should treat each other with
utmost consideration. Do you see your present partner or
future partner, whether marriage or otherwise, as your Godgiven assignment on whom you will give account?
 Birthday Blessing: Every good and perfect gift is from
above...James 1:17
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 49
Let the wife make the husband glad to come home and let
him make her sorry to see him leave. - Martin Luther
D232
Tuesday, August 20 Joshua 24:14-18
WE WILL SERVE THE LORD
And the Lord drove out before us all the nations, including
the Amorites, who lived in the land. We too will serve
the Lord, because he is our God. Joshua 24:15-18
anre stared at the briefcase full of fresh currency
notes. He would have become a billionaire and settled
all his debts, thinking it was an answer to his prayers.
No one would have known except him and the contact
provided. But Lanre remembered the words of his late
father, Your decision in life will determine your destination in
life. If he took the money, he would always be a slave to the
providers of the cash. He would never be free. So reluctantly,
but firmly, Lanre rejected the offer. In today's text, Joshua
called the people to decide who they would serve. .He
reminded them of the constant pull to follow God or other
gods. But for Joshua, he declared that he and his family
would serve the Lord. Then the people chose to follow God
rather than the historical gods and their contemporary gods.
As believers, our faith in the Lord will always be
challenged. Leah, one of the abducted girls in the northern
part of Nigeria stood for God in the face of abandonment,
loneliness, and possibly death, even when others were
released in March, 2018. Hers is a direct message to us
that we should stand firmly for the Lord no matter the
circumstance. What is your decision about serving Christ?
For ease or whatever betide?
 Birthday Blessing:...his blessing will be on your food and
water. I will take away sickness from among you. Exo 23:25
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 50
You cant escape the responsibility of tomorrow by evading
it today. - Abraham Lincoln
L233
Wednesday, August 21 Proverbs 31:16-31
CAPABLE WIFE AND SUPPORTIVE HUSBAND
Her husband is known in the gates.... She makes linen
garments and sells them. Proverbs 31:23-24, NASB
ove and Cindy had been married for fourteen years.
They had gone through tough and good times but they
now have the best of life. Their friends envied them
and some of Cindys colleagues wished their husbands
were like her husband. Love was always available to offer
help to his wife without any complaint. He would often call
his wife for advice during a business meeting. Together,
Love and Cindy enjoyed their marriage.
The writer of Proverbs points out that a successful marriage
produces very positive attributes in the husband and the wife.
The husband is seen in the society as a respectable man. He is
held in high esteem. The woman is described as industrious and
productive. The couple is pictured to be enjoying a wholesome
relationship. God's intention about marriage is to bless the
husband and the wife. Marriage can only work when a couple is
committed to the union. When a man ensures that his wife finds
fulfilment through the use of her gifts and skills, she will become
a blessing and not a burden. When a woman ensures that her
husband is capable of being the best he can be, he becomes
gladness and not a grumbler. Let both singles and married bear
in mind that a home like Paradise is possible. Jesus makes that
happen but not without your positive involvement.
 Birthday Blessing: Commit to the Lord whatever you do,
and he will establish your plans. Proverbs 16:3 NIV
RBT Passage: Jeremiah 51-52
The real act of marriage takes place in the heart. Its a
choice you make  reflected in the way you treat your
husband or your wife. - Barbara De Angelis
L234
Thursday, August 22 Ephesians 5:6-20
LIVE AS CHILDREN OF LIGHT
for you were formerly darkness, but now you are Light in
the Lord; walk as children of Light. Ephesians 5:8, NASB
rancis d'Assisi once invited a young monk to join him
on a trip to town to preach. Honoured to be given the
invitation, the monk readily accepted. All day long, he
and Francis walked through the streets, byways and alleys,
and even into the suburbs. They rubbed shoulders with
hundreds of people. At day's end, the two headed back
home. Not even once had Francis addressed a crowd, nor
had he talked to anyone about the gospel. Greatly
disappointed, his young companion said, "I thought we were
going into town to preach." Francis responded, "My son, we
have preached. We were preaching while we were walking.
We were seen by many and our behaviour was closely
watched. It is of no use to walk anywhere to preach unless
we preach everywhere as we walk!"
Our text is a reminder to all of us that we were once in
darkness and have disobeyed God. Our choices were
selfish. Our actions were never in the interest of God. When
Gods mercy located us, things changed for real. We
exchanged our old way of life for the new and darkness
gave way to light. Christianity is a way of life. We must walk
as children of light and resist every temptation to act like
the anti- Christ. Arise and shine that light!
 Birthday Blessing: Though I walk in the midst of
trouble, you preserve my life.... Psalm 138:7
RBT Passage: Lamentations 1-2
Remember who you are. Dont compromise for anyone, for
any reason. You are a child of the Almighty God. Live that
truth. Lysa Terkeurst
F235
Friday, August 23 Ephesians 6:1-4
PARENTS AND CHILDREN TOGETHER
Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring
them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.
Ephesians 6:4 (NASB)
n a study, it was discovered that young men with high selfesteem had some common childhood experiences. These
included three key things. First, they were very much loved
by their parents. Second, their parents demonstrated sound
disciplinary behaviour in parenting. Third, they were from
homes where parents engaged children in openness and
freedom within defined limits which created a culture of
acceptance and emotional safety. The Bible encourages
parents not to abuse the power God gave them. They are to
govern their children with tenderness and love. In essence,
parents need to realise that they can be responsible for their
childrens irrational behaviour. As the research above shows,
children who are not provoked are more likely to turn out right.
Children too have responsibilities to their parents. The first
commandment on the horizontal level of relationship is to you -
honour your father and motherExodus 20:12
It is necessary for you to consider how you have been
parenting. Can you honestly say you have been bringing
your children (Both biological and spiritual) up in the way of
the Lord? As a child, you may need to pray for your parents
to help you grow in the way of the Lord.
 Birthday Blessing:...so that in all things at all times,
having all that you need, you will abound in every good
work. 2 Corinthians 9:8
RBT Passage: Lamentations 3-5
...my duty is to my family first. I am not to neglect my
family. - Dwight L. Moody
I236
Saturday, August 24 Ephesians 6:5-9
MASTERS AND SLAVES TOGETHER
With good will render service, as to the Lord, and not to
men, knowing that whatever good thing each one does, this
he will receive back from the Lord, whether slave or free.
Ephesians 6:7-8 NASB
indong had been the house master for a long time.
Students had come and gone out of the school, but he
remained. Always commended for doing good, he was
never promoted. He had considered lowering his standards but
he didnt. After 11 years of service, one of the students who he
mentored became the commissioner of education in his State.
While visiting schools, he saw Jindong still faithful and the
school was the best there. The Commissioner gave him all the
benefits that had been denied him.
Today, we are reminded that as Christians, we must
not trivialize the work we are assigned. Actually, whatever
we are assigned to do must be seen and done as unto God.
Our approach to any assignment must be that we are first
accountable to God who will ultimately reward us. As
faithful servants we must trust God for their wages, while
we do our duties willingly in His fear. Whether we are
owners or employees, masters or slaves, paid or volunteer,
How do you treat the assignments in our hands? What has
been your attitude towards your leaders or followers? Do
not hesitate to effect positive changes where necessary.
 Birthday Blessing: And the peace of God, which
transcends all understanding, will guard your hearts
and your minds in Christ Jesus. Philippians 4:7
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 1-4
Be faithful in small things because it is in them that your
strength lies. Mother Teresa
J237
Sunday, August 25 Ephesians 5:21-33
MARRIAGE: A COVENANT OF MUTUAL LOVE
...a man shall leave his father and mother and shall be joined
to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. Eph. 5:31
elmyra and Herbert Fisher broke the Guinness World
Record for the longest marriage. They were in 1924
and in 2008 they earned the record for the longest
marriage at 84years. When asked about the secret to their
lasting love, they simple stated, "Respect, support and
communicate with each other. Be faithful, honest and true.
Simply put, Love each other with all your heart."
Marriage is designed for two people of different hearts,
minds, thoughts, perspectives and backgrounds to become one.
God has given to husbands the superiority and headship but
they are expected to exercise such in love and total affection for
their wives. The wives are also expected to submit to their
husbands with cheerfulness, fidelity and humility. Putting this
noble command into practice makes marriage a joy and a
blessing. When One Flesh principle" is obeyed, everyone
connected to marriage will have testimonies to share to the glory
of God. What is the state of your marriage? How are you
preparing to actualise the manual of God for that spouse you are
planning to marry? All the questions will be answered best by
following counsels about marriage from the Scripture and godly
marriage counsellors. You can also pray against the devil's
attack against marriages.
 Birthday Blessing: With your help I can advance against
a troop; with my God I can scale a wall. 2 Sam 22:30
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 5-8
"Marriage is never a contest between two teams; it is
meant to be the union of two people into one team for the
purpose of winning." - T. Thomas
Z238
Monday, August 26 Luke 17:22, 26-37
REMEMBER LOTS WIFE
Remember Lots wife! Luke 17:32
student went into an examination and prayed
fervently for God to give him answers to the
examination questions. After spending some time
praying, God told him, I can only remind you of the things
which you have known. In the text, we are told to
remember Lots wife. What is it that we should remember?
The story of Lot is a common story though He lived in a city
where evil thrived. God sent help to him. He hesitated but
the angels took him and his family out of the town. He was
told to go to the mountains. He bargained and changed the
instruction. He and his family were told not to look back.
Unfortunately, Lots wife looked back and turned into a
pillar of salt.
As believers, we must be careful and watchful about
where we live. If we find ourselves in the midst of sinners,
our duty is to be a light unto them and never compromise.
We must be obedient to divine instructions and never
negotiate such because of the adverse effects. Obedience
has its rewards and likewise disobedience. Obedience pays!
Never be Mr Lots wife.
 Birthday Blessing: May nations serve you and peoples
bow down to you. Be lord over your brothers and may the
sons of your mother bow down to you.... Gen 27:29
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 9-12
God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in
Him John Piper
A239
Tuesday, August 27 Genesis 18:1-15
ABRAHAM AND SARAH - BECOMING PARENTS
Is anything too difficult for the Lord? At the appointed time I
will return to you, at this time next year, and Sarah will
have a son. Genesis 18:14(NASB)
ortune and Favour clearly loved each other. They had been
married for few years, but they started encountering some
unbearable challenges. Everywhere Fortune went, his wife,
Favour would trace him. At first, it seemed like a coincidence,
but later it became regular. Favour quarrelled anytime she saw
her husband with females. Her attitude was as a result of her
barrenness. She thought her husband would become unfaithful
because of her state. Favour had lost hope but her husband
kept assuring her that God will bless them with children. Three
years later, they became parents.
Abraham and Sarah had been waiting for a long time. It
must have been tough to have expectations each month
and not see it come to pass. They were getting old, and
hope was fading quickly. But when it was time, God
promised them a child and it came to pass. God could not
be hindered by any visible or invisible challenge. You might
be waiting for your miracle of a life partner, child, job or
other things and it seemed all is bleak. Remember the God
of possibilities. He does not change but changes situations.
Trust in God and relax in His strength. You will soon share
your testimony.
 Birthday Blessing: I will surely bless you and make your
descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky and
as the sand on the seashore... Genesis 22:17
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 13-15
God never said that the journey would be easy, but He did
say that the arrival would be worthwhile.  Max Lucado
F240
Wednesday, August 28 Genesis 18:16-21
CONCERNED ABOUT THE FAMILY
For I have chosen him, so that he may command his
children and his household...to keep the way of the Lord by
doing righteousness and justice.... Genesis 18:19 NASB
harles Francis Adams, son of President John Quincy
Adams and grandson of President John Adams, kept a
diary. One day he entered: Went fishing with my son
todaya day wasted into his diary.His son, Brook Adams,
also kept a diary, which is still in existence. On that same day,
Brook Adams made this entry: Went fishing with my father
the most wonderful day of my life! The father thought he
wasted his time, fishing with his son, but his son saw it as an
investment of time. If Francis Adams had carefully thought
about it, he would have seen it as a useful training period.
God noted He was going to share with Abraham the
events which were about to unfold for a very uncommon
reason. Abraham was to ensure that he taught his children
and household about the Lord and demonstrated it.
Abrahams family was to connect with Gods blessings by
learning from him. Parents are called to grow their families to
follow God and ensure that they transfer their faith from one
generation to another. They are expected to mentor their
family members, people who come in contact with them, who
would in turn teach their generation. All these are to be done
in fulfilment of Gods purpose. Every Christian, especially you,
must see it as a rewarding exercise and not time wasting.
 Birthday Blessing: The blessing of the Lord brings
wealth, without painful toil for it. Proverbs 10:22
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 16-17
You can either focus on whats tearing you apart, or you
can focus on whats keeping you together. Anonymous
C241
Thursday, August 29 Genesis 18:30-33
PLEADING JUSTICE FOR THE RIGHTEOUS
Then he said, Oh may the Lord not be angry, and I shall
speak; suppose thirty are found there? And He said, I will
not do it if I find thirty there. Genesis 18:30 NASB
he late Dietrich Bonhoeffer said that a Christian
fellowship lives and exists by the intercession of its
members for one another, or it collapses. I can no
longer condemn or hate a brother for whom I pray, no matter
how much trouble he causes me. His face, that hitherto may
have been strange and intolerable to me, is transformed in
intercession into the countenance of a brother for whom
Christ died, the face of a forgiven sinner. This is a happy
discovery for the Christian who begins to pray for others.
In our text today, Abraham interceded for the people of
Sodom and Gomorrah even when he knew what God had
decided to do. Abraham was aware of the lifestyle of Sodom and
Gomorrah; he did not dispute the allegation nor instigated
further anger, but pleaded for mercy. Rather, he interceded for a
good number of people that was never found there. Consider
your attitude toward others, especially members of Christ's body
and intercede for mercy for those who may be under Gods
judgment. Remember that the prayer of the righteous said in
faith still works. Are you concerned for the honest people who
may be caught up in places of evil? Have Abrahams heart and
know that intercession is the act of going on behalf of someone
else who needs help from Almighty God.
 Birthday Blessing: So, do not fear, for I am with you; do
not be dismayed, for I am your God. Isa 41:10
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 18-20
Obedience is an act of faith; disobedience is the result of
unbelief.  Edwin Louis Cole
T242
Friday, August 30 2 Peter 2:4-10
GOD RESCUES THE GODLY
the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from temptation,
and to keep the unrighteous under punishment for the
day of judgment, 2 Peter 2:9 (NASB)
astor was sweating profusely. How did he get into the
trouble? He was on a visit to Jade who had obviously
dressed in revealing clothes. Her perfume was
seductive and he was beginning to lose control. His mind
fluttered here and his will power seemed to be deserting
him. Contemplating on what to do, suddenly, there was the
sound of an explosion. As Jade ran to the window to see
what was happening, he rose quickly too and went to check
outside. It was the security light bulb that had exploded.
That was the saving grace.
The writer of this letter affirms that God knows how to
rescue the godly from temptation. Temptations will always
come to everyone who seeks to live for God. However, God
always delivers us. Little wonder Paul affirms this in 1
Corinthians 10:13 that God is faithful, who will not allow
you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but with the
temptation will provide the way of escape also, so that you
will be able to endure it. As you go about your day, live your
life in godliness. Do not live in fear of the tricks, traps, and
temptations of Satan. Instead, live in faith knowing that God
is watching you to deliver you from all temptations. But be
careful not to put God to test.
 Birthday Blessing: He refreshes my soul. He guides
me along the right paths for his names sake. Ps 23:3
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 21-22
We have to pray with our eyes on God, not on the
problems.  Oswald Chambers
P243
Saturday, August 31 Genesis 19:2-14
SODOMS SIN REVEALED
for we are about to destroy this place, because their outcry
has become so great before the Lord that the Lord has sent
us to destroy it. Genesis 19:13, NASB
unter arrived at the meeting determined to have his
way. He was sure there was no other candidate who
could defeat him. He had prepared his acceptance
speech filled with humour and loaded with quotes from some
of his most admired leaders in the world. For good effect, he
had included his personal view of integrity. As the meeting
began, he noticed that no one smiled at him. They had all
spoken with him the night before and assured him of their
support. Then the chairman of the panel called him and
handed two pieces of paper to him. Both were his secondary
school results, but one was a fake. He had been found out. It
affected not only his speech but also his integrity.
In the passage today, the angels told Lot that God would
destroy Sodom because their sins had become an outcry that
He could not ignore nor bear. Thus, there must be judgment.
We must understand that no sin is hidden from God and He
cannot be deceived. He is Omniscience and Omnipresence.
Just as it happened to Gunter, the day of reckoning will come
like a thief in the night. All sins will be exposed and reward
will be awarded. To avoid Gods judgment, confess all sins
and flee from every appearance of evil.
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD gives strength to his
people; the LORD blesses his people with peace. Psalm
29:11
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 23-24
The evil that men do lives after them; The good is oft
interred with their bones. ? William Shakespeare
G244
Sunday, September 1 Genesis19:1, 15-26, 29
THE FAMILY ESCAPES SUCCESSFULLY
So when God destroyed the cities of the plain...he brought
Lot out of the catastrophe that overthrew the cities where
Lot had lived. Genesis 19:29, NIV
family of five had an accident on a bridge. The car
somersaulted twice and got stuck on the metal bar
built to prevent automobiles from plunging into the
river. People at the scene of the accident thought there
would be no survivor. To everyones amazement, when the
rescue team got there, all the family members were alive.
God used the metal bar to prevent them from plunging into
the river, which would have led to their untimely death.
In todays passage, two angels were at Sodom to execute
Gods plan concerning the city. Lot and his family dwelt there.
Lot distinguished himself being respectful and generous to the
strangers (angels) (v. 1). These attributes coupled with the
righteousness and plea of his uncle, Abraham, Lots family was
spared from destruction. He obeyed the instruction to escape
the imminent destruction of the city His family was rescued
from eternal destruction [v 15-16]. In like manner, the world is
filled with wickedness, but God expects you to live as His
obedient child. Accept Gods call to distinguish yourself from
the world, embrace the loving arms of Jesus, escape the
second death and enjoy eternal victory. Ensure that all your
family members and neighbours accept and believe the
Gospel. Pray for the grace to be faithful till the end.
 Birthday Blessing: Go in peace, and may the God of
Israel grant you what you have asked of him. 1 Sam 1:17
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 25-27
"Salvation is free for you because someone else paid."
 Anonymous
A245
Monday, September 2 Numbers 6:1-5, 13-15
THE NAZARITE VOW
He must abstain from wine and other fermented
drink...He must not drink grape juice or eat grapes or
raisins. Numbers 6:3, NIV
ill you please tell me in one sentence, said a
Christian woman to a minister, what your idea
of consecration is? Holding out a blank sheet of
paper, the pastor replied, It is to sign your name at the
bottom of this blank sheet, and let God fill it in as He will. It
is evident from our passage that some Israelites had made
a special vow. That means that they decided to live a life of
consecration to the Lord [vv. 1, 2]. During this period, they
must watch their diet, appearance and associations [vv. 3-
6]. This was not just a vow of personal self-discipline; it was
an act of total devotion to the Lord.
The institution of the order of Nazarites was designed
to represent the pure and perfect state of man. The
Nazarite vow could be taken for a short time or a lifetime.
However, the Christian consecration is for life. A Christian is
expected to avoid sin, renounce all sensual pleasures and
delights, and resolve to live a life of self-denial. Do you
know that greatness in Gods kingdom is not based on
position and power, but on consecration and commitment?
Pray now for the empowerment of the Holy Spirit to live a
life of consecration unto God.
 Birthday Blessing: The fear and dread of you will fall
upon all the beasts of the earth and all the birds of the
air...they are given into your hands. Genesis 9:2
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 28-30
"The Lord doesnt want the first place in my life; He wants
all of my life."  Howard Amenzing
W246
Tuesday, September 3 Psalm 99
O LORD OUR GOD, YOU ANSWERED
O LORD our God, you answered them; you were to Israel a
forgiving God, though you punished their misdeeds.
Psalm 99:8
he following lines were inscribed on the wall of a
bomb-blasted air-raid shelter in Germany after the
Second World War.
I believe in the light, Even when the sun doesnt shine.
I believe in love, Even when it isnt given.
I believe in God, His voice can be heard;
Even when his voice is silent. (Anonymous)
From the world's viewpoint, people are often considered
great if they are successful. The writer of Psalm 99 reminds
us that only God is truly great. This psalm refers to what
God has done for Israel. Like in the above poem, the
psalmist makes us understand that God answers the
prayers of His people (vv. 6-8). And when they err He
forgives. However, it must be noted that God is merciful
when He punishes, and He overlooks no sin when He loves.
As Christians, we are to emulate the attributes of God.
Having the assurance that God is the same yesterday, today
and forever, it is necessary to move closer to Him through
Jesus. Are you burdened or troubled? God still seeks our
fellowship and delights in hearing and answering our
prayers. Therefore, get it settled through prayers.
 Birthday Blessing: I will do the very thing you have
asked, because I am pleased with you and I know you
by name. Exodus 33:17
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 31-32
"God punishes with one hand and blesses with the other."
 Yiddish proverb
T247
Wednesday, September 4 1 Samuel 1:1-8
HANNAH IS CHILDLESS AND SUFFERING
And because the LORD had closed her womb, her rival
kept provoking her in order to irritate her. 1 Samuel 1:6
wakaego had been married for over ten years
without a child and had experienced humiliation
from her in-laws. One day, her mother-in-law asked
her to leave her son's house. Nwakaego lost her patience in
the process and both of them engaged in a rift. Her motherin-law pounced on her, she fell and started to bleed.
Nwakaegos husband rushed her to the hospital only to
discover that she had lost four weeks pregnancy.
Hannah, the wife of Elkanah, who was barren, had a
bitter experience with her rival, Peninnah who had children.
She made her miserable (vv. 6, 7), and also made her cry at
the annual family feast (v.8). It must be noted that,
Hannahs barrenness was not due to punishment for any
sin (v. 5). It is evident that her barrenness, suffering, shame
and waiting were a trial of her faith. Likewise, there are
times God may allow us to pass through some challenges.
There may be insults, embarrassment and neglect from
people around us. God expects us to wait patiently in prayer
and put our trust in Him. Let that which you are passing
through motivate you to trust God more. He will surely
intervene at His purposed time.
 Birthday Blessing: But you would be fed with the finest
of wheat; with honey from the rock I would satisfy you.
Psalm 81:16
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 33-35
"God uses our down times to build us up."  Anonymous
N248
Thursday, September 5 1 Samuel 1:21-23
ELKANAH ATTENDS THE YEARLY SACRIFICE
When the man Elkanah went up with his family to offer the
annual sacrifice to the LORD and to fulfill his vow
1 Samuel 1:21, NIV
ew years ago, during the annual Harvest Thanksgiving in a
Baptist church, Mrs Akpans only child, Victoria, faced
unusual health problem. The experience was filled with
painful contradictions. Though helpless, she trusted God for a
supernatural healing and wholeness. She displayed a strong
faith in God but sometimes questioned her trust in God. She
watched her daughter groaning in pain with endurance. In spite
of all the daily struggles and dark experience, she gave a huge
sum of money to her church annually in fulfilment of her vow.
In the same vein, Elkanah attended the yearly sacrifice to
fulfil his vow (v. 21). Thrice a year, every Israelite male was
required to appear before the Lord at the central sanctuary (Ex.
23:14-19). Elkanah, no doubt, made vows annually to the Lord
as he prayed for Gods blessing on his crops and flocks, and
fulfilled those vows at the Feast of Tabernacle. Making vows to
God was a common feature of Old Testament piety, usually
involving thanksgiving offerings and praise. Answered prayers
are to be remembered with peculiar expressions of
thankfulness. It is not too late to fulfil that vow you have made.
No circumstance should debar you from fulfilling your vows. It
is better not to make a vow than to make a vow without
fulfilling it. Those who are steadfast resolve to pay their vows.
 Birthday Blessing: With joy you will draw water from the
wells of salvation. Isaiah 12:3
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 36-38
"Gratitude is born in the hearts that take time to count past
mercies."  Charles E. Jefferson
F249
Friday, September 6 1 Samuel 1:24-28
SAMUEL IS DEDICATED TO THE LORD
So now I give him to the LORD. For his whole life he will be
given over to the LORD.... 1 Samuel 1:28 NIV
s a woman was walking down the street one day, she
noticed a little girl leaving the church all alone. When the
child passed by her, the woman inquired where she had
been. In there, replied the little girl, pointing to the church.
And what were you doing in there? the woman asked.
Cleaning the pews and praying, was the prompt reply.
Thinking the child was probably bothered with some problems,
the woman inquired, What were you cleaning the pews and
praying for, dear? Nothing, the child replied. I just love Jesus.
I have been dedicated to the Lord from the womb.
The passage for todays devotion talks about another
child, Samuel, who was dedicated to the Lord and His
service. Hannah did so in fulfilment of her vow [1 Sam. 1:
10-11]. By dedicating the only child to the Lord, Hannah
gave her whole life to God. It must be noted that Hannah
could have offered a token as ransom to redeem the boy
(cf. Lev. 27:1-8) but, she gave up what she treasured most.
Hannahs action is a good example for every genuine
Christian. Do your gifts cost you little, or are they gifts of
sacrifice? Do you prefer to give God tokens, or your entire
life? Like Samuel, your dedication to the Lord should be
seen as a privilege to worship God perpetually.
 Birthday Blessing: You will be blessed more than any
other people, none of your men or women will be
childless..... Deuteronomy 7:14
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 39-40
"One can pay back the loan of gold, but one dies forever in
debt to those who are kind."  Malayan proverb
A250
Saturday, September 7 1 Samuel 2:18-21
HANNAH REWARDED FOR HER FAITHFULNESS
And the LORD was gracious to Hannah; she...and gave
birth to three sons and two daughters. Meanwhile, the boy
Samuel grew up in the presence of the LORD. 1 Sam 2:21
suitor in Wales, who was rebuffed for forty-two years,
eventually won his fair lady. He had written 2,184
love letters without any response. Though shy, he was
courageous and hopeful. He visited and asked for her hand
in marriage. To his delight and surprise she accepted! The
couple married at 74 years of age.
Like the suitor in the above story, Hannah was
rewarded at last for her persistency and faithfulness (vv.
19, 21). If Hannah had had many children, it would have
been easy to part with just one of them. Hannah had only
Samuel after years of waiting and she was faithful to the
Lord to the extent that she sacrificially gave her only child to
the Lord as a living sacrifice. Eli, the prophet, even
recognised Hannahs faithfulness and prophesied to her life
{v. 20]. God thereafter blessed her with three sons and two
daughters {v. 21}. What a faithful God! Hannahs reward for
her faithfulness teaches us that God is faithful and will
reward our sacrifices in multiple fold. If you are faithful to
God, His reward might not be immediate; but it will surely
come. What are those things you are trusting God for? Do
not give up as answers will surely come. Hold on to Him and
you will not be put to you to shame.
 Birthday Blessing: You will still bear fruit in old age; you
will stay fresh and green. Psalm 92:14
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 41-43
"God can bring showers of blessing out of storms of
adversity."  Anonymous
A251
Sunday, September 8 1 Samuel 1:9-20
GOD ANSWERS HANNAHS PRAYER
So in the course of time Hannah conceived and gave birth
to a son. She named him Samuel, saying, Because I asked
the LORD for him. 1 Samuel 1:20
I asked God for strength that I might achieve;
I was made weak that I might learn humbly to obey.
I asked for help that I might do greater things;
I was given infirmity that I might do better things.
I asked for riches that I might be happy;
I was given poverty that I might be wise.
I asked for all things that I might enjoy life;
I was given life that I might enjoy all things.
I was given nothing that I asked for;
But everything that I had hoped for.
Despite myself, my prayers were answered;
I am among all men most richly blessed. (Anonymous)
espite the fact that Hannah was passing through a
challenging period of bareness, she was very
committed to the service of her Creator and was
fervent in prayers. Her prayers were coming from the deepest
groaning of her heart (vv.12-13a). She didnt seek for an
intermediary, or those prayer merchants or commercial
prophets of her time. God answered Hannahs prayer without
any intermediary. As a child of, you must also understand that
God is your friend. Be consistent and fervent in your prayers.
He will revive your story.
 Birthday Gift: I will make you into a great nation and I
will bless you...Genesis 12:2
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 44-46
"Whosoever walks towards God one cubit, God runs
towards him twain."  Jewish proverb
D252
Monday, September 9 2 Corinthians 8:9-15
STRIKING A FAIR BALANCE
Our desire is not that others might be relieved while you
are hard pressed, but that there might be equality. 2
Corinthians 8:13, NIV
t a quarterly meeting of a church, a brother said that "I
regret to say that in the past one year, there has been
no increment in church membership." The way the
brother expressed his observation was a misuse of language.
He would have said that no new member joined the church.
Responding, another member said, the trouble with this
church is that there are two classes of parishioners: The
wealthy and the poor who are being oppressed.
Churches like the above can never strike a fair balance
unless it removes the gap between the rich and the poor. The
thrust of todays devotion is giving and sharing among Christians
that there might be equality (v. 13). It is evident that the
Corinthian church had planned to collect money for the
Jerusalem church. Paul, therefore, encouraged them to act on
their plans. He commends the act of giving of Macedonian
church and challenges Corinthian church to help their brothers
in Jerusalem. For they may be asked to do the same for the
Corinthians (v. 14). This is the striking of a fair balance that Paul
is talking about. However, we are not being asked to give away
all that we possess and lack basic things but to give generously.
Can God depend on you to strike a fair balance today?
 Birthday Blessing: I will instruct you and teach you in
the way you should go; I will counsel you and watch
over you. Psalm 32:8
RBT Passage: Ezekiel 47-48
"If he has the spirit of true generosity, a pauper can give
like a prince."  Corinne V. Wells
A253
Tuesday, September 10 1 Corinthians 12:18-26
BELIEVERS DEPEND ON ONE ANOTHER
If one part suffers, every part suffers with it; if one part is
honored, every part rejoices with it. 1 Corinthians 12: 26
he proud owner of the worlds largest collection of
termites, 230,000 of them, says that these insects
have a secret formula that helps them survive. The
formula is that they cooperate and depend on one
another. Zoologist Alfred Emerson said that one of the
main ways that termites survive is through co-operation, not
competition.
The church is made up of different people with
different backgrounds, gifts, and abilities. It is not unusual
for these differences to bring disunity, as was the case in
Corinth. Paul makes it clear that as the human body must
have diversity to work effectively as a whole, so the church
have diverse gifts, the use of which can help bring about
the accomplishment of Gods purpose (vv. 18,19). Like the
different parts of the body, believers are not to envy or look
down on one another, but to see everyone as important and
treat them equally. (vv. 21-26). Gods uses different ways to
create unity. He established the church to share in the pain
and pleasure of all the members. Develop interest in the
lives of others and get involved in the ministries of your
fellowship and church. You too need others.
 Birthday Blessing: May the LORD, the God of your
fathers, increase you a thousand times and bless you
as he has promised! Deuteronomy 1:11
RBT Passage: Daniel 1-3
"The cock that crows at dawn belongs to one family, but its
voice is the property of the whole neighborhood."
 African proverb
T254
Wednesday, September 11 Exodus 16:9-12
THE LORD RESPONDS TO COMPLAINTS
I have heard the grumbling of the Israelites. Tell them, at
twilight you will eat meat, and in the morning you be filled
with bread. Then you will know that I am the LORD your
God. Exodus 16:12, NIV
harles Lamb was giving a talk at a mixed gathering
and someone in the crowd hissed. Lamb calmly
responded, There are only three things that hiss, a
goose, a snake and a fool. Come forth and be identified.
Everybody was so stupefied by Lambs response that they
all sat in silence for a long time. They didnt know that Lamb
could hear that someone in their midst hissed.
Likewise, the Lord responds to Israelites grumbling. It
is interesting to note from this passage that, God gave fair
hearing to those who murmured. The Lord responded to
their complaints by sending them meat in the evening and
bread in the morning (v. 12). Gods act was to teach them
two lessons: (i) to prove that it was His infinite power and
goodness that brought them out of Egypt; (ii) to remind
them that He was their God. The manifestation of Gods
glory was to end the murmurings of the people and to
honour His servants, Moses and Aaron (vv. 9, 10). Do you
get irritated when in pain? Do not grumble against God.
Instead, pour out your heart to Him. He cares for you.
 Birthday Blessing: So do not fear, for I am with you; do
not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen
you and help you; I will uphold you with my righteous
right hand. Isaiah 41:10
RBT Passage: Daniel 4-5
"Only Christ the bread of life can satisfy our spiritual
hunger. "  Anonymous
C255
Thursday, September 12 Exodus 16:16-21
CONDUCTING DAILY FAMILY DUTIES
Each morning everyone gathered as much as he needed,
and when the sun grew hot, it melted away. Exodus 16:21
ne evening, young Alice sat on her mothers seat at
the dinner table, to serve the family meal, because
her mother was not around. Her immediate elder
brother who was not pleased with the arrangement, said
So youre the mother tonight. All right, how much is two
times seven? Without a moments hesitation, Alice replied
nonchalantly, I am busy, ask your father.
Like our mothers who are saddled with conducting daily
family duties as it is evident in the above story, the Israelites
were to gather the food that God has provided every morning.
The leftover must not be kept till the next day (v. 19). There are
two verifiable reasons why God gave them this instruction: (i)
to test their obedience; and (ii) to teach them to depend
entirely on Him for their daily needs. Jesus teaches us the
same lesson in the Lord's prayer: Our Father in heaven (where
the manna comes from)Give us today our daily bread (Matt.
6:9, 11). However, some Israelites who thought they were
wiser than God kept part of it peradventure the promise failed
(v. 20). But they were disappointed. Since God is the source
and giver of all you have, why dont you share with others those
riches you are hoarding before they are corrupted (v. 21, cf.
Jam. 5:2, 3). You brought nothing into the world. You will not go
with anything.
 Birthday Blessing: I will bless those who bless you, and
whoever curses you I will curse; and all people on earth
will be blessed through you. Genesis 12:3
RBT Passage: Daniel 6-8
Pity the home where everyone is the head. Jewish proverb
O256
Friday, September 13 Exodus 16:22-30
OBSERVING THE SABBATH DAY
Bear in mind that the LORD has given you the
Sabbath...Everyone is to stay where he is on the seventh
day; no one is to go out. Exodus 16:29, NIV
God ended the entire worlds array,
And rested on the seventh day:
His holy voice proclaimed it blest,
And named it for the Sabbath rest. -Anonymous.
od instructed the Israelites not to work on the Sabbath
day. It was to emphasize the importance of resting
after working and toiling for six days. He showed the
example by resting on the seventh day of creation. The only
exception to the instruction to take only enough manna for
their daily needs was in regard to the Sabbath. On the sixth
day, God made double provision for the Israelites, because of
the Sabbath. This exception points to the significance of
observing the Sabbath as a day of rest. God also
demonstrated what He meant by observing the Sabbath by
not providing manna on that day. Some of the people actually
went out on the seventh day to gather manna but found none
(v. 27). Disobedience, even in a small matter, provokes God
and they were thus reproved. However, it is important to note
that works such as saving lives, preaching the Gospel and
the likes cannot but be done on the Sabbath. Do not allow
flimsy excuses debar you from observing the Sabbath as
ordered by God. Learn to consciously set apart time for God.
 Birthday Blessing: ...because I love you, I will give men in
exchange for you, and people in exchange for your life. Isa 43:4
RBT Passage: Daniel 9-12
"The Lords Day is so called, because on that day, the joy of
our Lords resurrection is celebrated."  St. Isidore
G257
Saturday, September 14 Exodus 16:31-36
SYMBOLS OF REMEMBRANCE
Moses said, This is what the LORD has commanded: Take
an omer of manna and keep it for the generations to
come... Exodus 16:32, NIV
bdul-Akeem was a Jihadist, the firstborn of a reputable
Imam. No one could have succeeded in preaching the
gospel of Jesus to him. However, an incredible revelation
of Jesus got him converted two decades ago. The Inner Voice
(whom he later understood to be the Holy Spirit) told him to
keep two things out of the Muslim paraphernalia: the Quran
and the prayer cloth-mat from Saudi Arabia. The Quran as a
reference material, the cloth-mat for his bed.
Likewise, the Israelites were commanded to put some
manna in a special jar as a reminder of the way God
provided for them in the wilderness (v. 32). The
preservation of this manna from waste and corruption was
a standing miracle. Gods miracles and mercies are to be in
everlasting remembrance, for our encouragement to trust in
Him at all times. Symbols of remembrance have also
become an integral part of Christian worship. Jesus Christ
Himself is the true manna, the Bread of Life. (John 6:49-
51). Do not forget that the Word of God is the manna by
which our souls are nourished (Matt. 4:4). Have you
symbols of remembrance anywhere? Do not make them
objects of worship, instead let them draw you closer to God.
 Birthday Blessing: A thousand may fall at your side, ten
thousand at your right hand, but it will not come near
you. Psalm 91:7
RBT Passage: Hosea 1-4
"Life without Christ is a hopeless end; life with Christ is an
endless hope."  Anonymous
A258
Sunday, September 15 Exodus 16:1-8, 13-15
GOD PROVIDES FOR THE PEOPLE
When the Israelites saw it, they said to each other, What
is it...Moses said to them, It is the bread the LORD has
given you to eat. Exodus 16:15, NIV
Lexander, the Great, had a famous but poor philosopher
in his court. The philosopher was pressed for money and
made an application to his patron for a relief. Alexander
had commissioned him to draw whatever cash he needed
from the Treasury, so the philosopher presented a request for
a very huge sum. The Treasurer refused to honour the draft
until he consulted his royal master, adding that he thought the
amount was exorbitant. Alexander replied, Pay the money at
once. The philosopher has done me a singular honour. By the
largeness of his request he shows the idea he has conceived
both of my wealth and my generosity.
God provided for the Israelites during their sojourn in the
wilderness. However, when their food supplies got exhausted,
they began to complain bitterly against Moses and God for the
third time (vv. 2-3). They completely forgot Gods past
goodness and mercy. In the midst of our present challenges,
as Christians we must remember Gods past deeds with
thanksgiving. God should not be accused of neglect and
unfaithfulness. In spite of Israelites attitude, God showed
them His faithfulness by providing quail and manna. What are
your pressing needs? Present them before Him with a heart of
gratitude. God still provides for His people.
 Birthday Blessing: ...You anoint my head with oil; my
cup overflows. Psalm 23:5
RBT Passage: Hosea 5-9
"He who gives you a shirt will not find it difficult to give you
soap."  African proverb
A259
Monday, September 16 Psalm 106: 1-12, 48
PRAISE THE LORD!
Praise be to the LORD, the God of Israel, from everlasting to
everlasting. Let all the people say, Amen! Praise the
LORD. Psalm 106:48
he revival preacher suddenly removed his jacket and
loosened his tie. His shirt was literarily drenched with
sweat coming out of his body due to the violent
prayer session. Then he said, You will gather all the
remaining strength in you, and shout to the heavens, My
Father, My Father, let this month of September be a month
to remember for me, raise your voices and pray now. You
must have been part of such prayer meetings at one time or
the other. Though there is nothing wrong in praying
violently, but when such prayers are answered, do we
praise God with the same intensity and passion with which
we presented our requests?
The opening statement in todays passage is written in the
imperative, Praise the LORD! (v. 1) This suggests that
praising God is a duty every child of God owes Him. The
children of Israel sang His praise after He delivered them from
the hand of Pharaoh and rescued them from the Red Sea. Can
you recollect how many times God has delivered you from
dangers this year alone? Have you taken time to praise Him?
Even if you have done it before, you can do it again because
praising God is from everlasting to everlasting.
 Birthday Blessing: This is what the LORD says: I will
restore the fortunes of Jacobs tents and have
compassion on his dwellings. Jeremiah 30:18.
RBT Passage: Hosea 10-14
"Nature is the one song of praise that never stops singing."
Richard Rohr
T260
Tuesday, September 17 Numbers 13: 17b- 24
SPYING OUT THE LAND
See what the land is like and whether the people who live
there are strong or weak, few or many. Numbers 13:18
ur church wanted to buy a piece of land for our
preaching station. We decided to send two people to
verify the authenticity of the property and negotiate.
They brought the report and the entire Church Council was
convinced that it was a good land. We decided to purchase
it and paid few days after. None of us had been there, but
we bought the land based on Gods leading and the
convincing reports of those who went to spy out the land.
We believe that God who led us to start a church in the area
has also provided a place for His house to be built there.
Similarly, Moses sent out people to explore the land
they were about to take as an inheritance. He gave them
specific things to look out for while exploring the land. This
did not mean lack of faith in God who has been leading
them. Moses believed that the spies would bring positive
information about the land. Possibly, the information about
the land may encourage them to renew their strength for
the journey. If God is leading you into any venture, try and
do a little research about it. This will aid your preparation
and motivate you to pursue it.
 Birthday Blessing: I pray that out of His glorious riches
He may strengthen you with power through His Spirit in
your inner being. Ephesians 3:16
RBT Passage: Joel 1-3
"By failing to prepare, you are preparing to fail."
Benjamin Franklin
O261
Wednesday, September 18 Numbers 13:30-33
REPORTING MIXED REVIEWS
Then Caleb silenced the people before Moses and said, We
should go up and take the possession of the land, for we
can certainly do it. Numbers 13:30
he writer of Hebrews says, Now faith is confidence in
what we hope for and assurance about what we do
not see (Hebrews 11:1). James, in his epistles,
admonishes that if one claims to have faith, that is,
confidence in what he hope for and assurance about what
he do not see, then such a person must demonstrate it
through his action (James 2:17). The spies returned with
contradictory reports. Caleb had faith and said We can
certainly do it, but others saw fear and said, We cant.
One saw opportunity and possibilities, others saw obstacles
and impossibilities.
Even if God is giving you a vision that seems
overwhelming, it is because He does not want you to trust
in your ability but to look to Him for strength to accomplish
it. He wants to do the extra-ordinary things in and through
you so that He alone can take the glory. Therefore, dont
despair, instead rise confidently in faith and declare like
Paul, I can do all things through Him (Christ) who gives me
strength (Philippians 4:13).
 Birthday Blessing: Being confident of this, that He
(God) who began a good work in you will carry it on to
completion until the day of Jesus Christ.
Philippians 1:6
RBT Passage: Amos 1-4
"If you feel weak, limited, ordinary, you are the best
material through which God can work." Henry Blackaby
T262
Thursday, September 19 Exodus 32:7-14
MOSES RESISTS GODS PROPOSAL
Then the LORD relented and did not bring on His people
the disaster He had threatened. Exodus 32:14
nyone in the ministry of intercession will understand
what spiritual negotiation means. There are stories of
great intercessors that negotiated for the salvation of
loved ones for years until they received what they wanted. The
nation of Israel fell into sin again which grieved God to the
point that He wanted to wipe them off the face of the earth
and promised to raise through Moses. What an opportunity to
have ones name entrenched in the history of time as the
father of a nation. Interestingly, Moses interceded for them
and rejected the proposal and would rather have the entire
nation forgiven and restored than destroyed.
It takes a man with a very large heart to do what Moses
did. God fairly offered him intercessory opportunity. He held
out to Moses what could be referred to as inducements [v.
10b]. Some leaders would have quickly seized the
opportunity since God was the One making the proposal. He
declined because he was not selfish. He preferred the
salvation of the Israelites to his personal aggrandizement
and considered the covenant God has made with their
fathers. How large-hearted are you? Do you think only of
your own benefit or you consider the glory of God and the
benefit of others when there is crisis?
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD bless and keep you; the
LORD make His face shine on you and be gracious to
you. Numbers 6:24-25
RBT Passage: Amos 5-9
"People describe intercession by saying, It is putting
yourself in someone elses place.Oswald Chambers
A263
Friday, September 20 Deuteronomy 1: 34-40
GOD DECIDES WHO WILL ENTER CANAAN
No one from this evil generation shall see the good land I
swore to give your ancestors, except Caleb son of
Jephunneh. Deuteronomy 1:35-36a
any skilful players who participated in the rigorous
training for months in preparation for a particular local
tournament could not make the final list. In the
technical committees report, they wrote: No doubt a lot of the
boys showed great skills but they lacked discipline, like
controlling their appetite, reporting late for training, sneaking out
of the camp, lack of respect for the coachs authority, and so on.
For anyone to participate in this kind of competition there must
be both competence and character. Therefore, anyone found to
lack either or both was dropped from the final list.
Though it was easier for the Israelites, to get out of Egypt,
it seems difficult to get Egypt out of them. At every point, they
forgot the faithfulness of God and doubted His promise. They
were all condemned to die in the wilderness except Caleb and
Joshua who were to enter Canaan. Similarly, when you keep
going back to the world from which you have been rescued,
you are jeopardizing your salvation. Although God is merciful
and gracious, but is not pleased with unbelief and backsliding.
Do not forget that you are on a pilgrimage in the wilderness of
this world heaven is your home. Do not doubt the faithfulness
of God. Set your eyes on the goal lest you miss the mark.
 Birthday Blessing: May the LORD bless you from Zion;
may you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of
your life. Psalm 128:5
RBT Passage: Obadiah 1
"God is sovereign. He is God all by Himself and for Himself."
Gbile Akanni
M264
Saturday, September 21 Numbers 14:13-20
MOSES INTERCEDES FOR GODS PEOPLE
The LORD replied, I have forgiven them, as you asked.
Numbers 14:20
he work of a lawyer is to be an advocate, advisor and
counsellor to the person he represents. He counsels
his clients about legal options and represents them in
criminal or civil proceedings. It is interesting to see a lawyer
pleading a clients case in the court. The lawyer does so
passionately as if he is the accused, by citing relevant
provisions of the law.
Like a lawyer, Moses interceded for the Israelites. He
did so passionately by citing relevant provisions why God
must change His mind from destroying the Israelites. He
argued that the Egyptians will taunt them and question
Gods power and integrity to fulfil what He promised His
people. The high point in his intercession was in
accordance with your great love, forgive the sin of these
people, just as you have pardoned them from the time they
left Egypt until now (Numbers 14:19). God has called us all
to the ministry of intercession. The interest of others should
be above ours. Our prayer of intercession can prevent Gods
judgment.
 Birthday Blessing: No weapon forged against you will
prevail, and you will refute every tongue that accuses
you. Isaiah 54:17
RBT Passage: Jonah 1-4
"Discernment is Gods call to intercession, never to fault
finding."Corrie Ten Boom
T265
Sunday, September 22 Numbers 13:1-2, 25-28; 14: 1-10
DONT DOUBT: TRUST GODS PROMISES
...And do not be afraid of the people of the land, because
we will devour them. Their protection is gone, but the LORD
is with us. Do not be afraid of them. Numbers 14:9
ometimes, I make promises that I dont keep. I dont
break my promises deliberately, sometimes I just forget;
sometimes things dont just work out the way I had
planned it. This shows the limitation of humans; however God
does not break His promises because He is not limited by any
factor. He promised Israels ancestors to give them the land of
Canaan. He repeatedly reiterated His commitment to fulfil the
promise by freeing them from slavery and leading them to the
land of their inheritance. The Scripture says, God is not
human, that He should lie, not a human being, that He should
change His mind. Does He speak and then not act? Does He
promise and not fulfill? Numbers 23:19
Just as Caleb and Joshua challenged the congregation
of Israel not to rebel against the Lord by doubting His ability
to fulfil what He has promised, that is, giving them the land
of Canaan, we too must continue to believe in God who
does not lie. We must not doubt His ability to fulfil
everything He has promised. Any time God speaks, He does
so, because He is God who means what He says and never
changes. Unlike human beings, God wont forget His
promise, and no factor can limit Him. Therefore, dont doubt
Him; trust in His promises always.
 Birthday Blessing: See, I have placed before you an
open door that no one can shut. Revelation 3:8
RBT Passage: Micah 1-4
"We can count on Gods promises because of Gods
character." Mark Altrogge
S266
Monday, September 23 Psalm 103: 1-14
BLESS THE LORD WHO FORGIVES
Praise the LORD, my soul, and forget not all His benefits,
Who forgives all your sins and heals all your diseases.
Psalm 103:2-3
h what a joy filled my heart on the day that I
surrendered my life to Jesus. A heavy burden was
lifted off me. I had a sound sleep that night. The
assurance of forgiveness of my sins and the freedom from
guilt and other consequences of sin was what produced the
joy. Of greater joy is the realization that I received
forgiveness along with other benefits without deserving
them. Anyone who has had a genuine salvation encounter
will understand this.
When the Psalmist puts forgiveness of all your sins
as the first item on the list of all His benefits, he means
that the greatest benefit anyone can enjoy from God is
forgiveness, which serves as the foundation for every other
benefit like healing, deliverance, provision and so on. When
God forgives, He forgives us of all our sins and gives us the
opportunity of a new beginning. It is important that we
continue to remember that we are products of mercy. The
forgiveness we have received should make us humble and
sober. Above all, we should always be grateful and
continuously bless the Lord who forgives all our sins.
 Birthday Blessing: When you walk, your steps will not
be hampered; when you run, you will not stumble.
Proverbs 4:12
RBT Passage: Micah 5-7
"Do we praise God for forgiving our sins? Do we regard
ourselves blessed for the forgiveness we received from
Him?" Efren Narido
O267
Tuesday, September 24 Acts 10:34-43
JESUS FORGIVES OUR SINS
All the prophets testify about Him that everyone who
believes in Him receives forgiveness of sins through His
name. Acts10:43
uddenly, the whole court room became silent. Every
attention was on the Judge who bowed His head
while scribbing some things on a large book on His
desk. His pronouncement will put an end to the legal battle,
which began several months earlier. The accused was
sweating profusely; his lawyer had done his part to free him
from the impending peril. Finally, the judge raised his head,
adjusted his eyeglasses and said, You are hereby
discharged from this offense because I have an affidavit
here sworn to by the complainant to drop the charges
against you and to forgive you. You may go home a free
person.
In the same way, Jesus dropped every charge against
us. In Peters message, he emphasised that anyone can
receive forgiveness when they put their faith in Him. We are
all guilty of sins and we deserve to face the consequences
of our sins. However, out of Gods own love, He decided to
wipe our record of sins and discharge us from their eternal
consequences. No matter how terrible you have been, you
can receive forgiveness if you believe in Him. He is still
discharging and acquitting people who believe in Him. He is
waiting for you. Do not cover your sins.
Birthday Blessing: God blessed them and said to them, Be
fruitful and increase in number. Genesis 1:28
RBT Passage: Nahum 1-3
"The love of Christ who died for me is more than mind can
know." Timothy Dudley-Smith
S268
Wednesday, September 25 Numbers 14:21-25
GODS FORGIVENESS DOESNT ALLAY SUFFERING
Since the Amalekites and the Canaanites are living in the
valleys, turn back tomorrow and set out towards the desert
along the route to the Red Sea. Numbers 14:25
od is not a liar. When He says He has forgiven, He has
truly forgiven. Nevertheless, Israelites sins have
triggered a consequence which cannot be allayed.
Gods answer to Moses prayer was both of mercy and
judgment. God said none of those who saw His glory and the
signs He performed both in Egypt and in the wilderness but
chose to be disobedient will see the Promised Land. They
have to suffer for their continuous disobedience and
rebellion. Even though they were already at the border of
Canaan, they will continue to wander in the wilderness until
they all perish with the exception of My servant Caleb [who]
has a different spirit and follows me whole-heartedly (v. 24).
Truly, God is merciful and gracious. He is patient and
willing to forgive us when we confess our sins and repent.
However, our sin sometimes may have set in motion
consequences, which even His forgiveness would not allay.
The Israelites shut themselves out of a promise made
several years back which was about to be fulfilled in their
time. Likewise, some have truncated Gods purpose for
their lives and lost their eternal reward because of wilful
sin. Therefore, do not treat God with contempt. Do not take
His mercy and forgiveness for granted.
 Birthday Blessing: I will give you every place where you
set your foot. Joshua 1:3
RBT Passage: Habakkuk 1-3
"We all make choices, but in the end our choices make us."
Ken Levine
G269
Thursday, September 26 Numbers 14:26-30
GODS FORGIVENESS MAY INVOLVE HARSH
JUDGMENTS
So tell them, As surely as I live, declares the LORD, I will do
to you the very thing I heard you say. Numbers 14:28
ccording to C. S. Lewis, Good and evil both increase
at compound interest. That is why the little decisions
you and I make every day are of such infinite
importance. The smallest good act today is the capture of a
strategic point from which, a few months later, you may be
able to go on to victories you never dreamed of. An
apparently trivial indulgence in lust or anger today is the
loss of a ridge or railway line or bridgehead from which the
enemy may launch an attack otherwise impossible. In
essence, every actiongood or badhas its consequences.
Similarly, the story of the Israelites in todays passage
teaches that there are consequences for every action and
that God will not condone sin forever. Although He remains
merciful, gracious and forgiven, yet He will not let the guilty
go unpunished. Since they have consistently refused His
offer, He decided to punish them by allowing them to perish
in the wilderness. The wages of sin is still death. Let us do
away with anything that will provoke God It is important to
patiently run the race that has been set before us. Dont
allow what you are going through to hinder you from getting
to where you are going.
 Birthday Blessing: Arise, shine, for your light has
come, and the glory of the LORD rises upon you.
Isaiah 60:1
RBT Passage: Zephaniah 1-3
"There are in nature neither rewards nor punishments
there are consequences." Robert G. Ingersoll
A270
Friday, September 27 Numbers 14:31-35
CHILDREN SUFFER FOR ADULTS SINS
Your children will be shepherds here for forty years,
suffering for your unfaithfulness, until the last of your
bodies lies in this wilderness. Numbers 14:33
t is a known fact that children are the most affected when
it comes to adults misbehaviour. Take for instance, a
mother who consumes alcohol and other dangerous
substances is very susceptible to having a child with some
disabilities. This is no fault of the child at all; however, the
child will live with this challenge all through his/her life
unless the problem is miraculously or medically corrected.
Likewise, some children go through social stigmatization
because of the reckless behaviour of their parents. When a
parent chooses the way of crime and he/she is sent to jail,
the children may find it difficult to live in the society.
This illustrates the essence of todays passage, that is,
one persons action may bring grave consequence on several
generations. Those who sinned received their judgment by
wandering in the wilderness until the last of them died.
However, their innocent children will bear the brunt. They will
be shepherds here for forty years, suffering for your
unfaithfulness. If we all realize that the consequences of our
sins may extend to the present and future generations, we will
be more careful, faithful and responsible. Make a decision
today never to trivialize sin because of its consequences.
 Birthday Blessing: For I know the plans I have for you,
declares the LORD, plans to prosper you and not to
harm you, plans to give you hope and a future. Isa 60:1
RBT Passage: Haggai 1-2
"Choices made...follow you forever and affect everyone in
their path, one way or another." J. E. B. Spredemenn
I271
Saturday, September 28 Numbers 14:39-45
PEOPLE REBELLED AND WERE DEFEATED
But Moses said, Why are you disobeying the LORDs
command?...Do not go up, because the LORD is not with
you. You will be defeated by your enemies Num 14:41-42
preacher once said, When you sin, simply confess it
and move. The truth is that moving on after a sin has
been committed is not as simple as the preacher
suggested. Though the preacher was right about confessing,
but the journey has just started after confession and can only
be sustained through a determination to closely walk with God.
The Israelites admitted their sin but they were in a hurry to
move on. Perhaps they thought they could buy Gods favour
with their presumption, even after Moses warned them against
their action. Moses disapproved their emotions and told them
not to go up. It is a fact that whoever refuses to obey the law is
obliged to submit to the penalty. The result of that rebellion
was that they suffered great defeat.
When we sin, it affects our relationship with God. It is
pertinent to acknowledge this broken relationship, be sober
and allow the Holy Spirit to cleanse and restore us. Until that is
done, we must not carry Gods instrument or act as His servant
to avoid being defeated. A Bible commentator wrote that,
Sometimes, right actions or good intentions come too late. We
must not only do what is right, but also do it at the right time.
God wants complete and instant obedience.
 Birthday Blessing: The Lord will rescue me [you] from
every evil attack and will bring me [you] safely to His
heavenly kingdom. 2 Timothy 4:18.
RBT Passage: Zechariah 1-5
"If you build the guts to do something, anything, then you
better save enough to face the consequences." Criss Jami
A272
Sunday, September 29 Numbers 14:10b-20
THE LORD SAYS, I DO FORGIVE
The LORD replied, I have forgiven them, as you asked.
Numbers 14:20
omas Borge was a leader in the struggle against the
totalitarian regime that had dominated his country,
Nicaragua. During the revolution, Borge was captured
and put in prison. While there, he was subjected to the
most extreme torture for over 500 hours. After the
revolution, Borge was freed and later became the Minister
of Interior. One day, he found one of his torturers in jail. He
walked up to this man who had inflicted such terrible,
relentless and brutal pain upon him and said, I am going to
get my revenge from you. He then held out his hand and
said, This is my revenge, I forgive you.
The children of Israel had inflicted so much pain on
God by breaking His heart many times. They seemed
hardened and encouraged in their rebellion by the leniency
and patience of God. God was in a position to completely
destroy them, but He restrained Himself and held out His
hand and said, I have forgiven them! God still forgives
sinners. It is not His desire for anyone to perish but is
patiently waiting for all to come to repentance. Dont write
off anyone. Like Moses, pray for the salvation of others so
that they too can partake in His forgiveness.
 Birthday Blessing: From six calamities He will rescue
you; in seven no harm will touch you. Job 5:19
RBT Passage: Zechariah 6-10
"Few things accelerate the peace process as much as
humbly admitting our own wrongdoing and
asking forgiveness." Lee Stroebel
T273
Monday, September 30 Psalm 111
PRAISE GODS WORKS
Great are the works of the LORD; they are pondered by all
who delight in them. Psalm 111:2
n November 2017, our church embarked on a thirty-day
a challenge to thank God throughout the month for
everything and not ask Him for anything. It was a great
experience for many of us as God unfolded several areas of
our lives we have taken for granted. The most important
aspect of those thirty days journey was the experience to
focus on God and meditate on His works, in spite of all the
challenges around. In fact, many people testified that they
never thought they could stay in prayers for hours only
thanking God and their thanksgiving list never get
exhausted.
Comparing this with Psalm 111, one can suggest that
the aim of this psalm is to motivate us to praise God,
especially when we ponder on His works. In praising Gods
works, the central theme that keeps showing up is His
faithfulness. Even in our own lives today, God has not
ceased to demonstrate His faithfulness. He loves us. He
chooses us. He prefers us. He keeps His word. He does all
these for us because of His faithfulness and love. Gods
works in our lives and around us are evidences of His
greatness. Therefore, give Him praise for His works.
 Birthday Blessing: Dear friend, I pray that you may
enjoy good health and that all may go well with you,
just as you are progressing spiritually. 3 John 2
RBT Passage: Zechariah 11-14
"If we would talk more about the Lord and praise Him, we
would have less time to talk about ourselves."
- M.R. DeHaan
I274
Tuesday, October 1 Hebrews 8:1-12
MEDIATOR OF THE NEW COVENANT
"...as the covenant of which he is mediator is superior to
the old one, since the new covenant is established on
better promises." Hebrews 8:6, NIV
ifty-nine years ago, Nigeria gained her independence
from the Great Britain. The implication of that is that
Nigerian people began to rule themselves. Before
independence, the colonial masters (the Britons) were in
charge of government in Nigeria. History has it that when
we got independence, Jaja Wachuku became the first black
speaker of the Nigerian Parliament. Jaja Wachuku received
Nigeria's instrument of independence on October 1, 1960
from Princess Alexandra of Kent, the Queen's
representative at the Nigerian Independence Ceremony.
As the name of Jaja Wachuku went into the history of
Nigeria independence, the name Jesus Christ is the centrepiece
in God's plan of redemption for humankind. Jaja Wachuku did
not pay any special price for the role he played in Nigeria history,
but Jesus Christ suffered, shed His blood and died on the cross
because of the sin of humankind, especially your sin. He was
buried in the grave, but on the third day, He resurrected and
ascended into heaven. By this truth, Jesus Christ became the
mediator of God's New Covenant for humankind. Your personal
faith in Jesus brings you into a covenant relationship with God:
you are His son and He is your Father forever.
 Birthday Blessing: "But you are a chosen people, a royal
priesthood, a holy nation, Gods special possession, that
you may declare the praises of him..." 1 Peter 2:9
RBT Passage: Malachi 1-4
"If you and sin are friends, you and God are not yet
reconciled." - J. C. Ryle
F275
Wednesday, October 2 Deuteronomy 5:1-7
GOD MADE A COVENANT WITH US
"The Lord our God made a covenant with us at Horeb"
Deuteronomy 5:2, NIV
wanted to open a current account with a bank
sometimes ago. The bank required me to bring my
electricity bill, my national identity card and an
introduction letter from two people. I wondered why they
were subjecting me to such unnecessary stress. Upon
complaining to a friend, he explained to me that what the
bank was requesting were normal because they want to
know who I am before they enter into a relationship with
me.
Just like human organization, God delights in having a
personal relationship with you. God loved the Israelites so
much; He longed to deepen His relationship with them,
even as He was leading them into their Promised Land. He,
therefore, brought them into a covenant with Him. This
covenant stands as an insurance for His relationship with
them and bound them intimately with Him. God is not
satisfied with mere attending church service or serving in a
unit in the church, He wants you to have an intimate
relationship with Him. This is why He gave us His Spirit and
His written words. The Bible is God's covenant book. If you
want to know God intimately, you must start to treat it as
God's love letter to you.
 Birthday Blessing: "Yet to all who did receive him, to
those who believed in his name, he gave the right to
become children of God." John 1:12, (NIV)
RBT Passage: Matthew 1-4
"Loving God is a strong inner emotion, not a mere outward
action." - John Piper
I276
Thursday, October 3 Deuteronomy 4:9-11
REMEMBER THAT YOU WERE THERE
"Only be careful, and watch yourselves closely so that you
do not forget the things your eyes have seen or let them
fade from your heart as long as you live. Teach them to
your children and to their children after them" Deut. 4:9
once participated in a relay race. I was the last person to
collect the baton. The first person did well, but the
second person fell while he attempted to collect the
baton from the first person. I was very eager to move, but I
couldn't because my running mate had fallen. While
opponents collected their batons and sped off, I kept
panting on the spot.
Life in the kingdom of God is like a relay race. The
baton in the relay race stands for the knowledge of God in
the kingdom race. God expects one generation to pass His
knowledge to another generation. If a generation fails, the
succeeding generation will suffer the consequences of their
actions. The instructions God gave to the people of old, He
gives to you today. God had you in mind when He gave the
instructions in the Bible. You were there so you must keep
His words and pass it on to other people. The most
effective way of passing the baton of the knowledge of God
is by living out the Word of God, by living a life of total
obedience to the leading of the Holy Spirit daily. Another
way is to make sure that your life and your knowledge of
God have a positive influence on people around you.
 Birthday Blessing: You are the light of the world. A
town built on a hill cannot be hidden" Matthew 5:14
RBT Passage: Matthew 5-6
"When you embrace the word of God, your destiny is
established." - David Oyedepo
I277
Friday, October 4 Deuteronomy 4:14-24
MAKE NO HEAVENLY OR EARTHLY IDOLS
"Be careful not to forget the covenant of the Lord your God
...do not make for yourselves an idol in the form of anything
the Lord your God has forbidden" Deuteronomy 4:23, NIV
any young people make idols of celebrity. They
want to dress like them, they want to talk like
them, in fact they practically pattern their lives
after them. What many of them do not know is the fact that
the lives of the celebrities are not ideal. They give a perfect
picture on the outside, whereas many of them are full of
silent struggles and regrets. This is the same with every
earthly idol. They entice you with outward appearance but
in the real sense, the life they offer is full of struggles.
God warned the people of Israel against worshipping
and serving idols. The idols in the olden days were largely
physical images representing deities. Those deities could
be past human heroes or certain evil spirit. The idols of
today could be anything, person, an association or ideology
that fully wins your admiration, devotion or allegiance. God
hates idolatry in any form; idolatry is a force that pushes
God from the centre of human heart and enthrones another
thing. So, God fights idolatry and the idolaters. Do you have
any idol in your life? If yes, you must quickly renounce your
allegiance and return to God in genuine repentance and the
Lord will pardon and accept you.
 Birthday Blessings: "Blessed is the one who does not
walk in the step with the wicked or stand in the way that
sinners take or sit in the company of mockers." Psalm 1:1
RBT Passage: Matthew 7-9
"We never grow closer to God when we just live life. It takes
deliberate pursuit and attentiveness." - Francis Chan
M278
Saturday, October 5 Deuteronomy 4:25-31
GOD WILL NOT ABANDON YOU
"For the Lord your God is a merciful God; he will not
abandon or destroy you or forget the covenant with your
ancestors..." Deuteronomy 4:31, NIV.
any times, we have done things that seem
unpardonable; things that we even find difficult to
forgive ourselves. But there is an assurance of God's
love, despite our hopeless state. God, like a shepherd, gently
bears us in His arm and carefully guides us with His eyes
irrespective of our state. Today's passage gives a vivid picture of
the hopeless state in which the children of Israel will find
themselves if they choose to forsake God and follow other gods.
God warned the people of Israel about what they must
avoid upon entering the Promised Land. They must refuse
to be influenced by the cultures of other nations, and if they
get influenced, God will be angry with and punish them.
Meanwhile, if they can repent and return to God, then He
will forgive them because He has promised never to
abandon them. What state have you found yourself today?
What lies has the devil being feeding you with about God's
love? The truth is that there is no state you find yourself
that God is not always willing to accept you. It does not
matter how you got there, what matter is your willingness to
step above that state and cling to God. No matter what
happens in life, remember that God will never abandon you!
 Birthday Blessings: "No weapon forged against you will
prevail, and you will refute every tongue that accuses
you...." Isaiah 54:17, NIV
RBT Passage: Matthew 10-11
"Christ is our faithful Shepherd. Put your trust in Him."
Charles Colson
M279
Sunday, October 6 Deuteronomy 4:1-8, 12-13
COMMIT TO COVENANT OBEDIENCE
"And the Lord directed me at that time to teach you the
decrees and laws you are to follow in the land that you are
crossing the Jordan to possess." Deuteronomy 4:14, (NIV).
lying an airplane requires keeping many rules. For an
airplane to take off and attain the highest altitude, the
pilot must follow many instructions. So, the safety of
the passengers depends largely on the pilot's attention to
the weather condition and the messages coming from the
control tower.
As Moses prepared the children of Israel for their
entrance into the Promised Land, he reminded them of
God's covenant rules and he enjoined them to obey them
all. He warned that obedience to the covenant of God will
guarantee their prosperity and safety in the land. There is
also a place God has prepared for you and you can only get
there by complete obedience to His prompting. He has
made resources available for what He wants you to do, but
the key to access these resources is your obedience to His
instructions. He wants you to become who He had wired
you to be, but you must know and obey His covenant rules.
The Holy Bible and the voice of the Holy Spirit is the
equivalence of God's covenant with Christians today. You
can also receive God's instruction through the words of
godly parents, Keep the words in your heart daily and
always be responsive to the prompting of the Holy Spirit.
 Birthday Blessings: "Whether you turn to the right or to
the left, your ears will hear a voice behind you, saying,
This is the way; walk in it Isaiah 30:21, NIV
RBT Passage: Matthew 12-13
"Partial obedience is gross disobedience." - Anonymous
F280
Monday, October 7 Proverbs 3:1-10
KEEP GODS COMMANDMENTS
"My son, do not forget my teaching, but keep my
commands in your heart" Proverbs 3:1, NIV
he Holy Bible contains the Word of God that can
deliver us from all evils. But you must put it in the right
place for it to have its desired effect in your life.
People can place it under the pillow, on the table, in smart
phones, in tablets or inside their bags, but the best place to
keep the Word of God is inside our hearts!
The father instructed his son in today's passage to
keep his words in his heart so that his days might be long.
One of the basic instructions he gave his son is that he
should trust the Lord with all his heart and acknowledge
Him in all his ways and He will direct His path. Keeping the
Word of God in your heart helps you to activate its power
whenever you need it. It also helps your faith to grow and
guides every step you take. Mediating on God's Word will
keep your heart from evil and this will help you to fear God
more. How much of God's instruction do you know? How
much of His Word have a place in your heart? Read the
Bible every day, meditate deeply on it and obey it in all your
walks and relationships.
 Birthday Blessing: "And my God will meet all your needs
according to the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus"
Philippians 4:19, (NIV)
RBT Passage: Matthew 14-17
"Practicing obedience becomes the solid foundation to
weather the storms of life."  Ronald Beers
T281
Tuesday, October 8 Matthew 17:1-7
ON THE MOUNTAIN WITH JESUS
"After six days Jesus took with him Peter, James and John
the brother of James, and led them up a high mountain by
themselves." Matthew 17:1, NIV
ntimacy is said to be that moment when our true identity
is revealed - when traumas, fears and ambitions are
shared. It is a situation where you allow your life to
mingle with another person's life. This is true about God as
well as humans. Those who affect our lives more are those
whom we spend time together most. This is why Jesus
spent adequate time with His close friends so as to develop
an intimate relationship.
Spending time alone with Jesus is not only possible
when Jesus was physically present on earth. It is also a
reality now. One effective way of having intimacy with Jesus
today is by setting time apart alone to worship Him and
study the Holy Bible. It is a time when you talk intimately
with Jesus, a time you carefully listen to His voice. If you will
grow up spiritually, you must cultivate the habit of setting
time apart to commune with Jesus as your friend. You must
choose a place where there will be minimal distraction; a
place where you can be alone with Christ, where all your
attention and focus will be on Him and nothing else. If you
can sustain this habit, you will be surprise at how your life
will be greatly transformed to become more like Jesus
Christ within a short period of time.
 Birthday Blessing: Come to me, all you who are weary
and burdened, and I will give you rest" Matthew 11:28
RBT Passage: Matthew 18-20
"God is far more interested in a love relationship with you
than He is in what you do for Him." Henry Blackaby
I282
Wednesday, October 9 Luke 4:24-30
PROPHETIC EXAMPLES OF FAITHFULNESS
"Yet Elijah was not sent to any of them, but to a widow in
Zarephath in the region of Sidon." Luke 4:26, NIV
n important key to achieving outstanding success is
focus. Focus refers to one's ability to accurately perceive
and clearly understand what one is supposed to do and
to doggedly pursue it despite numerous distractions until one
accomplishes the purpose. All successful people can attest to
the fact that they intensely focused on their goals before they
could achieve it. In the same way, Jesus Christ alluded to two
great men in the Old Testament that did not allow anything to
distract them from what God wanted them to do. They are
Elijah and Elisha.
Particularly, Jesus said that God sent His prophet, Elijah
to a particular widow in Zarephath. Zarephath was not an
Israelite town, yet Elijah was willing to obey God. Also, the
kind of person he was sent to was not promising in terms of
what the man of God might want to benefit. He didn't allow
any distraction like material gain or location to prevent him
from going to where and whom God sent him to. That is
faithfulness! Note that you are not here by accident. God
deliberately sent you into this world to achieve a specific
purpose. You must locate it and focus on it until you
achieve it. Follow the example of faithfulness of the
prophets of old and you also will leave an indelible mark.
 Birthday Blessing: "being confident of this, that he who
began a good work in you will carry it on to completion
until the day of Christ Jesus" Philippians 1:6, (NIV)
RBT Passage: Matthew 21-22
"All God wants from us is to follow His plans."
James F. Garrido
A283
Thursday, October 10 Acts 20:7-12
PAUL RESTORES LIFE
Paul went down, threw himself on the young man and put
his arms around him. Dont be alarmed, he said. Hes
alive! Acts 20:10, NIV
n 1555, as part of her campaign to re-establish the
Catholic Church in England, Queen Mary, also known as
bloody Mary, arranged for John Philpot, one of the
leading protestant ministers of the day, to be burned at the
stake. When his death sentence was pronounced, Philpot
said, "I am ready; God grant me strength and a joyful
resurrection. Philpot walked to the place of execution on his
own, rather than having to be dragged to it, and when he
reached it, he knelt and kissed the stake at which he would
be burned.
The apostle gave up all the good things of life to serve
the purpose of Jesus. To Paul, nothing has any value,
everything is vanity if it is not engaged to serve the purpose
of Christ. Because of this commitment of Paul, God
endowed him with the supernatural ability to do miracles,
especially raising of the dead. Who or what do you want to
live your life for? The vanities of life or for the king of life?
Once you yield your life to Jesus in totality, He will surely
endow you with abilities to do the impossible!
 Birthday Blessings: Ask and it will be given to you;
seek and you will find; knock and the door will be
opened to you." Matthew 7:7, NIV
RBT Passage: Matthew 23-24
If you will not be forgotten, as soon as you are dead and
rotten, either write things worth reading, or do things worth
writing. - Benjamin Franklin
I284
Friday, October 11 1 Kings 17:1-7
GOD-SENT RAVEN FEEDS ELIJAH
"The ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning
and bread and meat in the evening, and he drank from the
brook." 1 Kings 17:6, NIV
n different cultures, ravens mean different things. It
could be a symbol of bad omen, symbol of death, symbol
of goodwill, etc. They are greedy and can eat anything
available. They keep company with wolves hunting for food
in the wild. The Bible mentions raven as the first bird Noah
sent out of the ark to check whether the ground was dry,
and it didn't return.
As unreliable as a raven is, the Bible states in today's
passage that the ravens brought bread and meat to Elijah
twice a day for many days. This can only be God's
handiwork. How was it possible for such a greedy creature
to share food with Elijah at a time of famine? Only God can
use the foolish things of this world to confound the wise.
God can make unbelievable things happen in your life if you
decide to obey His Words. He can use that difficult situation
to favour you. In human imagination, a raven is the last
animal that could perform such a crucial role for the
prophet of God. What difficulties are you facing or going
through? God is able to use anything or anyone to turn
things around for you. You only need to obey His
instructions and you will experience God's intervention.
 Birthday Blessings: "Blessed are those who hunger and
thirst for righteousness, for they will be filled." Matthew
5:6, NIV
RBT Passage: Matthew 25-26
"God never made a promise that was too good to be true."
- Dwight L. Moody
I285
Saturday, October 12 1 Kings 17:17-24
ELIJAH RESTORES LIFE TO WIDOWS SON
"The Lord heard Elijahs cry, and the boys life returned to
him, and he lived" 1 Kings 17:22, NIV
here are a lot of things that are common to humans.
There are things that are consistent with the human
nature which every human being should be able to do
without struggle. Things like talking, walking, eating and
other day-to-day activities. However, we refer to some
things as supernatural because those things are beyond
the human nature. Raising a dead person is not within the
ability of a natural man.
The woman who hosted Elijah lost all hope when her
son took ill and eventually died. Elijah prayed earnestly for
the dead boy. God heard his prayer and restored the boy's
life. Then the woman became happy and confirmed that
Elijah was a true prophet of God. By this story it becomes
clear to us that Elijah carried divine life within him. This is
why he could restore the life of a dead boy. Jesus Christ
promises every Christian the divine life. He said, "The thief
comes only to steal and kill and destroy; I have come that
they may have life, and have it to the full" John 10:10, (NIV).
When you cultivate God's presence in your life, His power
will be released to do amazing things through you. Dedicate
your life to Him. He wants to do the impossible through you!
 Birthday Blessings: "His divine power has given us
everything we need for a godly life through our
knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and
goodness." 2 Peter 1:3, NIV
RBT Passage: Matthew 27-28
"All I have seen teaches me to trust the Creator for all I
have not seen." Ralph Waldo Emerson
T286
Sunday, October 13 1 Kings 17:8-16
WIDOWS FAITHFULNESS REWARDED
"She went away and did as Elijah had told her. So there was
food every day for Elijah and for the woman and her family"
1 Kings 17:15, NIV
rs Raymond amazed all her co-workers when she
reported that she found a small bag containing a
huge amount of money in foreign currencies. Being a
poor widow who was struggling to pay her children's school
fees, no one expects her to be so truthful and faithful. But God
paid her back greatly when the owner of the money, a CEO of a
multinational company, gave the woman job in his company
and her status suddenly changed.
The widow Elijah met showed a selfless attitude. She
obeyed the prophet's instruction. She prepared the bread for
the prophet first and that singular action brought an end to
poverty and lack in her life. It might appear to her that she
would lose her last meal to an unknown prophet, but her
obedience paid off in that God provided for her such that she
did not run out of food until after the famine. When there is a
need to give to God, rather than looking at the cost of what
He is asking, it is more profitable to consider the reward that
will follow such sacrifice because our God has promised that
He will repay our labour of love. Is the Lord demanding
anything from you at present? If you will be faithful like that
widow, you will also experience miraculous blessings.
 Birthday Blessing: "See, I am doing a new thing! Now it
springs up; do you not perceive it? I am making a way in
the wilderness and streams in the wasteland" Isa 43:19
RBT Passage: Mark 1-3
"Earth circumstances are insignificant when compared to
Heaven's provision." Albert Hibbert
M287
Monday, October 14 James 5:13-18
THE PRAYER OF FAITH IS POWERFUL
"Therefore confess your sins to each other and pray for
each other so that you may be healed. The prayer of a
righteous person is powerful and effective." James 5:16
anet stood out in her department as a Christian. A
lecturer threatened to fail any male student who failed
to buy him two thousand naira recharge card and any
lady who refused to sleep with him. Janet decided that she
would never do that. She informed her prayer partner and
they prayed for God's intervention. Two weeks later, the
lecture mysteriously fell ill and was hospitalized. A Christian
lecturer took over the course and majority of the students
passed the course, including Janet.
Prayer is relevant in every situation of life. The Bible
instructs that believers ought to pray in all situations.
Whether you are in trouble, happy or sick, you ought to pray.
The Bible says, "Then Jesus told his disciples a parable to
show them that they should always pray and not give up"
Luke 18:1, (NIV). The reason the Bible places much
emphasis on prayer is that it is a powerful weapon. Through
prayer you can bring about positive change in your life and
in any circumstance you may find yourself. Note that, prayer
is most powerful if you are born again and you are living a
righteous life. Do you desire any positive change around
you? Pray about it and your prayer will be answered!
 Birthday Blessing: "Call to me and I will answer you
and tell you great and unsearchable things you do not
know." Jeremiah 33:3, (NIV)
RBT Passage: Mark 4-5
"The man who can pray truly is richer and more blessed
than all the others." Marcus Aurelius
J288
Tuesday, October 15 Mark 5:25-34
YOUR FAITH HAS MADE YOU WELL
"He said to her, Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in
peace and be freed from your suffering Mark 5:34, NIV
multi-national company advertised vacant positions
for applicants who had minimum of second class
upper grade from the university. An applicant had
third class grade and he submitted application. On the day
of interview, he was asked why he applied for the job since
he knew his qualification was below the minimum
requirement. The applicant replied: "I applied because I
have what your company needs to move to the next level."
The panel interviewers became interested in what he could
do for the company and eventually gave him the job.
The woman who suffered from the issue of blood had
many obstacles on her way to receiving miracle from Jesus
Christ. She was a woman, her gender limited her socially. She
was religiously unclean because she was bleeding and there
was a large crowd around Jesus, the crowd that shielded
Jesus from anyone who may want to have personal contact
with Him. Nevertheless, she carefully thought of a way out for
herself. There is always something you can do about any
challenging situation that comes your way. Like the woman,
the wisest thing to do is to take the matter to Jesus. Seek to
know the mind of God and take a step of faith. The problem
will become a stepping stone for you.
 Birthday Blessing: Come to me, all you who are weary
and burdened, and I will give you rest." Matthew 11:28
RBT Passage: Mark 6-7
"Real leaders are ordinary people with extraordinary
determination."  Anonymous
A289
Wednesday, October 16 Galatians 3:6-9
BELIEVERS ARE BLESSED
So those who rely on faith are blessed along with Abraham,
the man of faith. Galatians 3:9, NIV
ave you at any time found yourself being punished
alongside others for the offense committed by just
one person? On the other hand, have you found
yourself enjoying some privileges because of what someone
had done previously? Paul in this passage affirms that
believers, regardless of race and denomination share the
same blessing as Abraham because of their faith. Abraham
believed in God and it was credited to him as
righteousness; hence, those who put their faith in God
today partake of this blessing.
Being partakers of the Abrahamic blessings is not a
function of being born as a Jew but a result of accepting
and believing in the finished work of Christ on the cross.
Consequently, biological descent, racial affiliation, social
status and other human designed barriers cannot prevent a
person from receiving and enjoying the covenant blessings
and provisions of God. Have you come to faith in Christ
Jesus? If yes, then congratulations; but if no, it is not too
late to believe in Jesus and confess Him as your Saviour
and Lord so that you can begin to enjoy the blessings that
come with the relationship. Remember that only those who
have believed have become partakers of the blessings of
Abraham.
 Birthday blessing: You will be blessed in the city and
blessed in the country. Deuteronomy 28:3
RBT Passage: Mark 8-9
"Rejoice that if you are Gods child his love toward you is
endless."  Andrew Murray
H290
Thursday, October 17 Mark 10:46-52
BARTIMAEUS HEALED BY FAITH
Go, said Jesus, your faith has healed you. Immediately he
received his sight and followed Jesus along the road.
Mark 10:49, NIV
ometime ago, a village experienced an unusually long
period of drought. When there appeared to be no end
in sight to the drought, they decided to seek the face
of God in fasting and prayer. On the chosen day, all the
villagers gathered in the village square for prayer but there
was one boy who came with an umbrella believing that their
prayers will be answered. As the prayer session was coming
to a close, a heavy downpour came on the village and
everyone at the meeting was drenched, except the boy who
went with an umbrella.
In our passage today, Bartimaeus demonstrated faith
when he used the messianic title, Jesus, Son of David in
addressing Jesus. While some considered him a nuisance
and tried to stop him, his resilience and persistence caused
him to receive Jesus attention and he was healed from his
blindness. In the varying categories and degrees of
blindness that we struggle with today, we need to exercise
faith in the Lord Jesus who alone is able to restore our sight
and meet all our needs. As you go out today, put your faith
in the Lord and you will experience His power.
 Birthday Blessing: The boundary lines have fallen for
me in pleasant places; surely I have a delightful
inheritance. Psalm 16:6
RBT Passage: Mark 10-11
"Physical blindness is no obstacle to spiritual sight;
conversely, physical sight is no guarantee of spiritual sight."
 Victor Babajide Cole
S291
Friday, October 18 Luke 6:46-49
FAITH IS EXPRESSED THROUGH ACTION
Everyonewho hears my word and puts them into
practicethey are like a man building a house who dug
down deep and laid the foundation on rock. Luke 6:47-48
s fire fighters battled to put out the great fire which
had engulfed a building, the shouts of a father
echoed through the noise to his son who was trapped
on the second floor of the building to jump down before the
fire caught up with him. After some moments of hesitation,
the boy jumped and he was safely caught in a blanket by
his father. After regaining his breath, the boy said, Even
though I could not see you or the method you had devised
to save me, I knew I could trust your words to jump down.
In todays passage, Jesus likened those who acted in
consonance with His words to wise builders who built their
houses on rocks. When we act in line with the Word of God
that we have read or heard, we keep our integrity; enjoy
great comfort, peace, hope and joy in the midst of the
greatest stress; and have our everlasting welfare secured in
Him. However, when we do not act according to His Words,
we fall into the pit of disappointments, discomfort and
danger similar to the crumbling of the labours of a lifetime.
As you go out today, determine to be the doer of the Word
of God at all times and in all places.
 Birthday Blessing: May the LORD send you help from
the sanctuary and grant you support from Zion Psalm
20:2.
RBT Passage: Mark 12-13
"Faith in action is the epitomy of trust."  George Bostrom
A292
Saturday, October 19 Luke 7:11-17
JESUS RAISES WIDOWS SON
He said, young man I say to you, get up! The dead man sat
up and began to talk. Luke 7:11-17, NIV
fter going through thick and thin to train her only son
up to university level, the life of an aged widow came
crashing when she was informed of the gruesome
murder of her son by Boko-Haram insurgents while
observing the mandatory National Youth Service Corp in
one of the northern states in Nigeria. All efforts to console
her proved abortive as she cried uncontrollably saying,
What else am I living for? Let me go and join him.
The above incident is similar to the story in our
passage today; a case of utter hopelessness. However, in
the story of the widow of Nain, when the burial procession
met Jesus on their way out of the town hope was restored
from an otherwise hopeless situation. At Jesus command,
the dead boy came back to life thus bringing joy to the
mother, amazement to the people and glory to God. No
matter how hopeless your experience seems, never forget
that Jesus possesses the power to redeem every situation
and make things work out to the praise of His name and joy
of His beloved. Ask Him to intervene in that case today and
experience His power at work. I pray that every dead virtue
of yours shall receive life, in Jesus' name.
 Birthday Blessing: Surely your goodness and love will
follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the
house of the LORD forever. Psalm 23:6
RBT Passage: Mark 14
"He the Perfect Man knew how to weep with them that
weep. His sympathy is a real thing today; he can have
compassion now as then."  George Goodman
A293
Sunday, October 20 Luke 7:1-10
JESUS HERALDS THE CENTURIONS HEALING FAITH
I tell you, I have not found such great faith in Israel.
Luke 7:1-10, NIV
uring a Sunday school class, someone asked: Can
unbelievers receive miracles from God? One of the
answers given to this question was that God mostly
acts in response to individual faith; however, He may work
miracle in an unbelievers life with the intention of using
such miracle to draw that unbeliever to Himself.
In our passage today, the centurion demonstrated two
great virtues necessary for miracles  humility and faith. His
humility was displayed when he confessed that he was not
worthy to have Jesus under his roof and his faith was
brought to the fore when, in line with his daily experience as
a senior military officer who is used to giving orders to
subordinates, he requested Jesus to simply give an order
and his servant would be healed. Jesus commended his
faith and pronounced the servant healed. All the provisions
of God are at our disposal and we can come to fully enjoy
them as we ask in humility and faith. God gives grace to the
humble and makes all things possible for those who have
faith. May you enjoy the fullness of His provisions as you
humbly ask Him in faith, in Jesus' name.
 Birthday Blessing: You will be a crown of splendor in
the LORDs hand, a royal diadem in the hand of your
God Isaiah 62:3
RBT Passage: Mark 15-16
"Wait on the Lord, trust his word and be patient; have faith
in God, hell answer yet."  B.B. McKinney
D294
Monday, October 21 Isaiah 52:7-10
GODS SALVATION FOR ALL PEOPLE
The LORD will lay bare his holy arm in the sight of all the
nations and all the ends of the earth will see the salvation
of our God. Isaiah 52:10, NIV
fter presenting a seminar paper on the doctrine of
Election and Salvation by Grace, a doctoral candidate
was asked whether he thought Gods door of
salvation is perpetually open and whether it is open to
everyone. He responded that Gods door of salvation had
been open since the fall of humankind at Eden; and yes,
the door is open to everyone who is willing to come in.
Our passage today reveals that the heralds of the good
news of salvation have a goodly heritage (v. 7), and that
Gods salvation is not exclusively reserve for a privileged
few but a provision for anyone who comes to acknowledge
and appropriate it. Yes, Gods salvation is for all people; He,
however, needs people who would serve as the bearers and
conveyers of the good news of salvation to all the ends of
the earth. Regardless of colour, language, race, and socioeconomic status, everyone is included in Gods plan of
salvation. As you go out today, be reminded that you have a
responsibility to make known to the world the good news of
Gods salvation through Jesus Christ.
 Birthday Blessing: Instead of your shame you will
receive a double portion, and instead of disgrace you
will rejoice in your inheritance. Isaiah 61:7a
RBT Passage: Luke 1-2
"The Gospel includes three things  peace, salvation, and
the news that God reigns."  Edouard Kitoko Nsiku
A295
Tuesday, October 22 Luke 5:20-26
YOUR SINS ARE FORGIVEN
When Jesus saw their faith, he said, Friend, your sins are
forgiven Luke 5:20, NIV
ax Lucado once said, Jesus is God in the flesh
who wants to change lives. The truth of this
statement can be found in the passage for our
devotion today where Luke emphasised how people
responded in faith to Jesus and were rewarded by blessings
greater than they could imagine. A group of men defied all
obstacles to bring their paralytic friend to Jesus for healing.
However, Jesus, instead of pronouncing him healed,
pronounced him forgiven of all his sins.
When the Jewish leaders and the Pharisees questioned
His authority to forgive sins, Jesus proceeded to pronounce
the man healed from his sickness and the people gathered
praised God for the miracle they witnessed. While the sick
mans friend earnestly desired that their friend be healed
physically, Jesus wanted to first heal the soul before the
body. Do you have a challenge that appears daunting? Trust
in the Lord for breakthrough. You may have to engage the
power of networking and involve a few brethren to join you
in prayers. As you go out today, remember that no challenge
is too great for Jesus to solve; hence, put your trust in Him
and experience His intervention in your affairs. It is well with
you!
 Birthday Blessing: I will turn their mourning into
gladness; I will give them comfort and joy instead of
sorrow Jeremiah 31:13b
RBT Passage: Luke 3-4
"To heal the body is temporal; to heal the soul is eternal."
 Max Lucado
M296
Wednesday, October 23 Mark 13:9-13
SALVATION REQUIRES ENDURING WITNESS
The one who stands firm to the end will be saved.
Mark 13:13b, NIV
or more than ten years now, the Nigerian state has
been engaged in a severe battle against Boko-Haram
insurgents who have launched series of attacks on
religious and public institutions especially in the North-east
region of the country. Consequently, the churches in the
north-east have suffered great loss from the attacks of the
fundamentalist group. This makes one to ask, Must we
continue to be killed because we are Christians? Despite
these attacks, their faith keeps waxing stronger.
Jesus had foretold that His followers would be sorely
persecuted for their faith in Him and this has been the case
since the time of the early Church. Even today, persecution
of Christians continues globally and in different forms. To
believe in Jesus to the end will require perseverance
because our faith will be challenged and opposed. Through
severe trials, true believers will be separated from fairweather ones; and while enduring to the end does not earn
us salvation, it marks us as already saved. Regardless of
the nature and severity of the persecution you are facing,
hold fast to your faith in the Lord and He will keep you safe.
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD make his face shine on
you and be gracious unto you. Numbers 6:25
RBT Passage: Luke 5-6
"Faith is the pencil of the soul that pictures heavenly
things."  T. Burbridge
F297
Thursday, October 24 Romans 10:5-13
ALL WHO CALL WILL BE SAVED
For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be
saved. Romans 5:13, NIV
s he fled from the mob pursuing him, the thief fell into
an uncovered well and got injured in the process. The
pursuers searched the area frantically but couldnt
find him. As they were about to give up and return home,
they heard someone scream, Please come and help me
out of this pit, I am the thief you are looking for. The people
first put aside their indignation at the thief for his offence
and rescued him from the pit, took him to the hospital for
treatment before handing him over to the appropriate law
enforcement agency.
In this passage, Paul established that it is possible for
everyone to come to faith in Jesus Christ by confessing that
Jesus is Lord and believing that God raised Him from the
dead. Believing in Jesus erases the dividing line between
Jews and Gentiles and unites all in God. Like the thief in the
above illustration, we can also cry out to the Lord to rescue
us from the pits of life, whether they are of sin or daily
challenges. Anyone, regardless of age, gender, race, colour,
and language that calls on the Lord will be saved. Call on
Him today, your salvation is sure.
 Birthday Blessing: I pray that you may enjoy good
health and that all may go well with you, just as you are
progressing spiritually. 3 John 2
RBT Passage: Luke 7-8
"Faith honours God, God honours faith."  E. Doan
A298
Friday, October 25 John 13:12-20
TREAT EACH OTHER LIKE JESUS DOES
Now that I, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet,
you should also wash one anothers feet. John 13:14, NIV
e were preparing for our evening devotion and my
wife had asked the kids to go and tidy up their
room. Suddenly, our eldest child called out,
Mummy, I have laid the bed but my sister is not sweeping
the floor. This was just one out of their many arguments,
quarrels and reporting over doing household chores.
Watching my kids argue and quarrel about who does what
usually reminds me of the age-long struggle of humankind
to accept responsibility and the unwillingness of anyone to
be the errand boy.
In todays passage, Jesus taught His disciples a principle
that would help extend His mission on earth after He was
gone. The disciples were to move into the world serving God,
serving each other, and serving all people to whom they took
the message of salvation. He personally set an example by
carrying out a duty reserved for household servants  washing
the feet of guests at a meal. What a difference it would make
in our relationships, homes, churches and institutions if we
continually have the mindset that we are here to serve one
another. The key message of todays devotion is to serve
others without thinking of reward. Ask yourself, What can I do
today to serve others the way Jesus did?
 Birthday Blessing: See, I have placed before you an
open door that no one can shut. Revelations 3:8
RBT Passage: Luke 9-10
"There will be no one in heaven who does not have a dirty
towel from the washing of the feet of men."
 Roger E. Dickson
W299
Saturday, October 26 Luke 7:24-30
LEADERS REJECT GODS MESSENGER
But the Pharisees and the experts in the law rejected Gods
purpose for themselves, because they had not been
baptized by John. Luke 7:30, NIV
church worker had acted contrary to the provisions of the
church constitution and the ethics of Christian ministry.
When the matter was brought up at the church council
meeting, the house became divided as the older members of the
council gave excuses in support of the erring worker and insisted
that he should not be disciplined while the younger members of
the council argued that the stipulations of the church constitution
on such matters be strictly followed and the worker should be
disciplined so as to serve as deterrent to others.
In todays passage, Jesus nudged His listeners to reflect
more on the ministry of John the Baptist  the firmness of his
message, his modest lifestyle, and his prophetic ministry. At the
end of the evaluation, the crowd was divided into two  the poor
people and the tax collectors who acknowledged that the way of
God is right and the learned Pharisees and scribes who rejected
Gods purpose. Even today, most religious and political leaders
reject Gods purpose and way through their disposition towards
the Gospel. All that matters to God is not your personality,
religiosity, or academic acumen but your response to His Word.
Decide to be one of the few that would accept Gods purpose
and acknowledge the righteousness of His way.
 Birthday Blessing: Grace and peace be yours in
abundance through the knowledge of God and of Jesus
our Lord 2 Peter 1:2
RBT Passage: Luke 11-12
"Approaching Gods word with an attitude that I am perfect
means that one misses the greatest of blessings."  Paul Isaak
A300
Sunday, October 27 Luke 7:37-48
HER MANY SINS HAVE BEEN FORGIVEN
Therefore, I tell you, her many sins have been forgiven.
Luke 7:47a, NIV
fter realising the error of their ways, people, especially
in the African milieu, often resort to weeping to show
their remorse and also seek forgiveness from the one
offended. The woman in todays passage was described as
one who had lived a sinful life in the city. In Jesus opinion,
this woman through her emotional display is appreciating
the love of God in forgiving her sins. While Simon, the host,
felt too important to treat Jesus as an equal and extend the
courtesy of feet washing, welcome kiss and hospitality to
Him, this sinful woman lavished tears, expensive perfume
and kisses on Jesus. Jesus ruled that it is this sinful but
grateful, woman, and not the stingy self-righteous host
whose sins are forgiven.
Although we are not saved by acts of love or generosity
but by Gods grace, this womans act demonstrated her true
faith and Jesus honoured it. No matter how great or terrible
your sins are, they are not beyond the forgiving range of
Christ. Acknowledge your sinfulness and helplessness to
Christ today and He will come to your aid. What are you
doing to appreciate God for His love over your life and for
forgiving you of your sins?
 Birthday Blessing: And my God will meet all your needs
according to the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus
Philippians 4:19
RBT Passage: Luke 13-15
"Overflowing love is the natural response to forgiveness and
the consequence of faith."  Ronald A. Beers
A301
Monday, October 28 Deuteronomy 19:15-20
WEIGH THE EVIDENCE CAREFULLY
A matter must be established by the testimony of two or
three witnesses. Deuteronomy 19:15a, NIV
n African adage says, He who judges a matter after
hearing only one side is grossly wicked. This saying
applies in every issue of adjudication as lawyers try to
build their arguments and cases on the testimonies given
by witnesses. Judges also, in giving their verdicts, weigh the
evidences supplied by witnesses and argued by lawyers.
This makes the position of a witness very serious and
important. God gave the Israelites different kinds of
guidelines to moderate all aspects of their lives and
relationships. One of such is that they should not bear false
witness (Deut. 5:20).
However, prohibition was not enough, there had to be
prescriptions of punishment for false witnesses and false
accusers with the aim of deterring such. In our daily
activities, we should be careful of peddling rumours about
others and be wary of accusing people of things we are not
sure of. When someone is reported to us, we must be
careful and patient enough to diligently find out the truth of
the matter before forming an opinion or giving a verdict.
Remember, every matter has to be established by the
evidence of two or three witnesses.
 Birthday Blessing: I will give you honour and praise
among all the peoples of the earth when I restore your
very eyes, says the LORD. Zephaniah 3:20
RBT Passage: Luke 16-18
"He who judges a matter after hearing only one side of the
argument is grossly wicked."  African Proverb
A302
Tuesday, October 29 1 Thessalonians 5:12-22
BUILDING UP YOUR FAITH COMMUNITY
Live in peace with each other. 1 Thessalonians 5:13b, NIV
s relationships grow old, we tend to become too familiar
and this may lead to taking one another for granted. We
often forget to appreciate the sacrifices others are
putting in to sustain the relationship and we most times stop
putting in our own best. In our passage today, Paul
admonished the Thessalonians on virtues that can help to
nurture their inter-personal relationships and also strengthen
the bond of peace in the household of faith. He urged them to:
respect the diligent workers, live in peace with one another,
warn the idle, encourage the timid, help the weak and be
patient with everyone. He also encouraged them to avoid
vengeance and be kind to one another and to everyone else. In
their spiritual pursuits, they were to be joyful always, pray
continually, give thanks in all circumstances, keep their
spiritual fervency, give due honour to prophecy, hold on to the
good after testing all things, and avoid every kind of evil.
The Lord expects us as believers to imbibe these
attributes too in our daily lives as well as in our relationship
as the body of Christ. We should never take lightly the
sacrifices of others; rather we should appreciate them even
as we strive to contribute positively to the growth of our
faith community.
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD will open the heavens, the
storehouse of his bounty to send rain on your land in
season and to bless all the work of your hands.
Deuteronomy 28:12
RBT Passage: Luke 19-20
"Gratitude is not only the greatest of virtues, but the parent
of all the others."  Cicero
A303
Wednesday, October 30 1 Corinthians 11:26-29
PREPARING FOR THE LORDS SUPPER
Everyone ought to examine themselves before they eat of
the bread and drink from the cup. 1 Corinthians 11:29, NIV
ne of the topics that have remained in the teaching
curriculum of primary school Health Habits is Table
Manners. It teaches the child principles pertaining
to sharing meals with others, such as having water
available when eating, washing of hands before eating, and
not talking while eating. In todays passage, Paul reminded
the Corinthians that partaking of the Communion is in
remembrance of the sacrifice of Christ and should be done
in orderliness, after strict self-examination. Anyone who
partakes of the communion without recognising the body of
the Lord brings judgement upon themselves.
As believers in this present time, we need to recognise
that the Lords Supper is not just some church tradition or
mystical ceremony, it is an exercise to help us retain the
memory of the sacrificial death of Jesus. Whenever we are
privileged to participate in its observance, we should do so with
all humility, soberness and thankfulness to God for the gift of
salvation through Christs death. We need to examine
ourselves on daily basis to see if there is anything in us that
can prevent us from partaking in the Lords Supper because
whatever denies one from participating in the earthly
communion, which is only a remembrance may deny one from
partaking in the heavenly communion which is the real deal.
 Birthday Blessing: No one will be able to stand before
you all the days of your life. Joshua 1:5.
RBT Passage: Luke 21-22
"To observe the communion in an unworthy manner would
be to sin against Christ himself..."  Dachollom Datiri
O304
Thursday, October 31 1 Tim 5:17-22
HONOUR YOUR ELDERS.
The elders who direct the affairs of the church well are
worthy of double honour 1 Timothy 5:17, NIV
t the five years appreciation service of a senior
colleague, members were given the opportunity to
give testimonies about the man of God. Of the many
encomiums showered on the pastor, some things stood out
 he was described as diligent, loving and faithful to the
preaching and teaching of sound doctrine. In Pauls
admonition to Timothy, he charged him to lead the church
to accord double honour to elders who have served well,
especially in the handling of the Word of God. He also
charged him not to entertain accusations against elders
except such is backed by the testimony of two or three
credible witnesses, and if any elder is found guilty of sin,
such should be appropriately reprimanded. Today, many
people find accusations against ministers of God as fastselling news. Such reports, especially if made against a
well-known minister, quickly spread and create sales for
media houses. We must be careful not to muzzle the ox that
treads the grain by spreading malicious reports and
unfounded allegations. Rather, ministers who labour
selflessly should be accorded due honour and support so
that they can minister more effectively and with peace of
mind. Determine to be a helping hand to a minister today
and God will reward you for it.
 Birthday Blessing: He will also send you rain for the
seed you sow in the ground, and the food that comes
from the land will be rich and plentiful. Isaiah 30:23.
RBT Passage: Luke 23-24
"Give me my wreath while I live"  Anon
A305
Friday, November 1 I John 4: 1-8
TEST THE SPIRITS
Dear friends, do not believe every spirits, but test the
spirits to see whether they are from God, because many
false prophets have gone out into the world. I John 4:1
ne day, a certain man came across a prophet on his
way to his workplace. The prophet told the man that
he would die in two weeks time. But, with his
knowledge of the scripture the man told his pastor and they
prayed together. Surprisingly, the man did not die even
after so many years. The Bible text warns us not to believe
every spirit, but to test the spirits so as to verify if it is from
God. John enlightens us on how to distinguish the Spirit of
God from other spirits, every spirit that acknowledges that
Jesus Christ has come in the flesh and is from God.
Beware of prophets who do not acknowledge the lordship
of Jesus. The fifth verse of our text tells us the characteristic of
these false prophets, that, they are from the world and speak
from the viewpoint of the world. Testing the spirits is to have
good understanding of the Scriptures and be willing to talk to
God on all occasions. Give yourself to studying and meditating
on Gods Word so that you can detect and overcome the
schemes of falsehood. Also, examine the Scriptures daily in
order to see if the teachings you have heard are true as the
Berean Christians did in Act 17:10-11.
 Birthday Blessing: So give your servant a discerning
heart to govern your people and to distinguish between
right and wrong I Kings 3:9a
RBT Passage: John 1-2
Discernment is not a matter of telling the difference
between right and wrong; rather it is telling the difference
between right and almost right.  Charles Surgeon
O306
Saturday, November 2 2 Corinthians 9: 10-15
GIVE GENEROUSLY TO ENRICH YOUR LIFE
You will be enriched in every way so that you can be
generous on every occasion, and through us your
generosity will result in thanksgiving to God. 2 Corin 9:11
here is a saying that giving is living. There was a man
who had great wealth. He had so much wealth that he
thought of ways to reduce it and was advised to give it
out. To his amazement, the more he gave, the more he was
blessed. Apostle Paul wrote to the church in Achaia
encouraging them to give generously as the opportunity
comes. He told them the benefits of giving generously and it
includes: physical increase, enlargement of righteous
harvest and enrichment in every way. He further explained
that being generous in every occasion will result in
thanksgiving to God. Paul calls it indescribable gift.
As a Christian, you must cultivate the habit of giving and
giving generously not out of coercion. This attitude makes
God to bless and enrich your life more so that you can
continue to be God's channel for blessing others. Proverbs
11:24 says, One person gives freely, yet gains even more;
another withholds unduly, but comes to poverty. You will be
blessed, and the heart of the people you have met their
needs will reach out to you in prayers and God will be
praised. God is not just interested in blessing you; He is also
interested in blessing others through you. Do not hold back
from blessing someone today.
 Birthday Blessing: Good will come to those who are
generous and lend freely Psalm 112:5a
RBT Passage: John 3-4
Generosity takes an open heart and a love that asks for
nothing in return. Anonymous
T307
Sunday, November 3 2 Corinthians 13: 1-11
EXAMINE YOURSELVES IN YOUR FAITH LIVING
Examine yourselves to see whether you are in the faith;
test yourselves. Do you not realize that Christ Jesus is in
you  unless, of course, you fail the test? 2 Corin 13:5, NIV
n any educational institution, teaching, learning and
assessment processes take place. Examination is
conducted as a form of assessment for the students to
evaluate their level of comprehension. Apostle Paul, in his
writings to the church in Corinth, warns them against false
teachings that was going on around them and causing them
to sin. He charges them to examine themselves to see
whether they are in faith because of their expression of
weakness as they request for proof to know if Christ is
speaking through him. He established the reason for testing
themselves which is to know if they are still in the faith of
Jesus Christ and His Word. Not being able to pass the test
means they are not conscious of the presence of Christ
Jesus in them.
He encouraged them to examine their faith by doing
what is right and not doing anything that is against the truth
as he had exemplified. As Christian youth, your faith in
Christ Jesus will be tested by what you encounter in life and
other life issues. Go through them with the consciousness
of Gods presence in you as you examine your faith in doing
what is right and not living against the truth of Gods Word.
 Birthday Blessing: Test me, Lord and try me, examine
my heart and my mind. Psalms 26:2
RBT Passage: John 5-6
Examine your heart and put away any distraction so you
can worship God freely. - Jim George
I308
Monday, November 4 Romans 5:1-5
SUFFERING LEADS TO ENDURANCE, CHARACTER,
HOPE
Not only so, but we also glory in our sufferings, because
we know that suffering produces perseverance;
perseverance, character; and character, hope. Rom 5:3-4
oratio Spafford, the writer of the song It is well with my
soul wrote this song as a result of the pain of the loss
of his family. Instead of giving up on his faith, he chose
to identify with the Word of Christ that says, 'be of good cheer I
have conquered the world. Similarly, Apostle Paul stated to the
Romans that, Christians can rejoice in suffering because they
know that it is not meaningless. Through Jesus Christ, we as
believers have gained access by faith into the grace of God to
stand in the face of trouble. As we stand two things happen:
we boast in the hope of Gods glory and also, glory in our
sufferings which produces perseverance, character and hope.
Part of Gods purpose is to produce character in his children
(James 1:3). The experience of Spafford implies that no man can
hold claim of these three virtues from our Bible text, without
undergoing suffering. Your own trying time could be
psychological, emotional, educational and financial. Be assured,
it will produce godly virtues in you. As a disciple of Christ, you
must bear in mind that suffering is part of the Christian journey
that gives us hope which does not put us to shame.
 Birthday Blessing: Sustain me, my God, according to
your promise, and I shall live; do not let my hopes be
dashed. Psalms 119:116
RBT Passage: John 7-8
There has never been any great person who never met
great trials...but their patience...and perseverance saw
them to the end as great people. Anonymous
H309
Tuesday, November 5 Romans 5:6-11
RECONCILIATION THROUGH JESUS CHRIST
Not only is this so, but we also rejoice in God through our
Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received
reconciliation. Romans 5:11, NIV
ne day, a rift broke out between a man and his wife.
The man said he would never forgive his wife as it
was her habit to always curse and disrespect him. He
intended to divorce her, but as the Lord would have it, the
Word of God came expressly to him during one Sunday
ministration by his pastor. This made him to reconsider his
position about his wife and sought for reconciliation. To
reconcile is to put an end to hostility and restore broken
relationships. This is reflected in the letter of Paul to the
Roman Christians. He states that we all have erred in the
past but Christ forgives and reconciles us back to God
through Jesus Christ.
Humans are naturally enemies of God and the hostility
must be removed for reconciliation to take place. God took
the initiative in bringing this about through the death of His
Son. Hence, there cannot be reconciliation elsewhere
except through Jesus Christ. Humankind will cease to live
as enemies of God if we believe and accept the provision
God makes for our reconciliation -- Jesus Christ. Are you
reconciled to God? God is waiting for you to accept His
provision for your reconciliation today.
 Birthday Blessing: Turn my heart towards your
statutes and not towards selfish gain. Psalms 119:36
RBT Passage: John 9-10
"The search for Jesus is about reconciling loss and tragedy
to God and us." Scott Lineberry
O310
Wednesday, November 6 Matthew 24: 36-44
BE READY FOR CHRISTS COMING
So you also must be ready, because the son of man will
come at an hour when you do not expect him. Mat 24:44
ver witnessed the dressing room of a bride about to
get married? The joy that fills the air is indescribable.
Everyone around must make sure that the bride has
everything she needs to have an impeccable appearance.
Looking at the other side, is the groom waiting patiently to
receive his bride, who he expects to be the most beautiful
lady in that auditorium. Jesus, as the Bridegroom, also
expects the Church to prepare herself so as to be presented
as a bride without spot or wrinkle. The text describes the
day of Christs coming as unknown, yet we are to keep
watch and be ready for His appearance.
The words of Jesus Christ establish His second coming
and He will surely come. It will be unexpected, sudden and
will be like the days of Noah. Do not be carried away by the
things going on around you. There are lots of things
contending with your readiness for Christs second coming.
They are there to distract you and shift your focus. But you
are to remember always that Jesus Word is more certain
than the existence of the universe. Be prepared, vigilant
and ready for He is coming again. Like a bride, do
everything necessary to prepare for the coming Christ.
 Birthday Blessing: On this mountain the Lord Almighty
will prepare a feast of rich food for all peoples, a
banquet of aged wine - the best of meats and the finest
of wines. Isaiah 25:6
RBT Passage: John 11-12
"The second coming of Christ is essentially the revealing of
the internal sense of the world." -- Steve Sanchez
E311
Thursday, November 7 Philippians 2:5-11
LIVE CHRISTS MIND AND CHARACTER DAILY
In your relationships with one another, have the same mind
set as Christ Jesus. Philippians 2:5
n a particular branch of a bank, fraud was detected and
the people involved were apprehended, but
unfortunately an innocent man was among those
accused. After thorough investigation, it was discovered
that Mr. Mark was not involved, so, he was exonerated. This
was discovered after examining the testimony of the life he
has lived and his interaction with fellow staff, customers,
family and his neighbours over the years. Apostle Paul
admonishes the Christians in Philippi to have the same
mindset as Christ Jesus. Jesus Christ as our perfect
example, did not consider equality with God, but, humbled
Himself in human likeness and became obedient to death.
Jesus Christ was able to fulfil Gods plan for humankind
because, He has the mind of God, though, it was tough for
Him, yet He submitted to the price of death on the cross.
God rewarded His humility by giving Him a name that is
above every name. Christ's mind in you must be expressed
in your attitude as you relate with people and handle issues
of life on a daily basis. Do you have character problem? You
need to go back to God for help. As a Christian, you must
have the attitude of self-sacrifice, humility and love for
others as it is in Christ.
 Birthday Blessing: Create in me a pure heart, O God,
and renew a steadfast spirit within me. Psalms 51:10
RBT Passage: John 13-15
"Genuine conversion means a change of life and especially
a change with our attitude toward sin." Anonymous
I312
Friday, November 8 Acts 17:1-9
UNDER PERSECUTION PROCLAIM JESUS THE CHRIST
.This Jesus I am proclaiming to you is the Messiah, he
said. Acts 17:3b
hristians are often persecuted for preaching the
Gospel, especially in a non-Christian environment. A
group of students narrated an experience they had in
2001 during a mission outreach organised by their campusbased BSF. Unknowingly, they entered the house of a
notorious herbalist in the village, to preach the Gospel to
the wife. Upon his arrival, the herbalist furiously challenged
their audacity, and asked them to leave his house
immediately. He even threatened to use charm on them,
but his plan failed and the name of God was glorified.
This experience is similar to that of Paul and Silas in our
passage today. Some Jealous Jews led others to persecute
them and oppose the message of Jesus being preached.
Those who accepted the message were also attacked. Despite
this set back, they were undaunted as they continued with the
divine mandate committed into their hands. Believers should
expect persecution as part of the deal in preaching the Gospel.
This will keep them in readiness for any opposition without
being discouraged. The devil is behind Christian persecution,
but God is behind the persecuted Christians to strengthen
them and see them through. Be reminded that God is always
with you as you proclaim Jesus to the world. Do not let anything
take the gospel message from your mouth.
 Birthday Blessing: Restrain your voice from weeping
and your eyes from tears, for your work will be
rewarded, declares the LORD. Jer. 31:16
RBT Passage: John 16-17
Persecutions are inevitable as Christians. Monica Johnson
C313
Saturday, November 9 2 Thessalonians 2:1-12
FACING TEMPTATION, STAY LOYAL TO CHRIST
Dont let anyone deceive you in any way, for that day will
not come until the rebellion occurs and the man of
lawlessness is revealed.... 2 Corinthians 2:3
airbain once asked, What is temptation? Seduction to
evil, solicitation to worry? It stands distinguished from trial
thus: trials tests, seeks to discover mans moral qualities
or character; but temptation persuades to evil, deludes, that it
may ruin. The one means to undeceive, the other to deceive. The
one aims at mans good, making him unconscious of his true
moral self; but the other at his evil, leading him more or less
unconsciously into sin. God tries; Satan tempts.
In todays passage, Paul warned the Thessalonian believers
of the danger of being deceived by false teachers and their
teachings. They taught that the day of the Lord has already
come. The world today is also filled with false teachers and
doctrines. They seek to pervert the truth and lead Christians
astray from their hope of glory. Some have even made false
claim that they are Christ, confirming the prophecy of Jesus to
His disciples. Unfortunately, some believers have fallen into their
trap. Christians who are not firmly rooted in Christ and Gods
Word will easily fall prey of the tempter. The power to say no,
then, lies in our resolve not to trust in our strength but to
constantly look to God for grace to remain faithful to Christ. Stay
true to the Truth and shun all appearances of evil.
 Birthday Blessing: The LORD is my light and salvation
whom shall I fear? The LORD is the stronghold of my
life  of whom shall I be afraid? Psalms 27:1
RBT Passage: John 18-19
"...In all temptations let us consider not what he offers, but
what we shall lose."  Richard Sibbes
F314
Sunday, November 10 1 Thessalonians 2:1-10
EXAMPLES OF FAITH TO ALL BELIEVERS
You are witnesses, and so is God, of how holy, righteous
and blameless we were among you who believed.
1 Thessalonians 2:10
he power of example cannot be overemphasised.
Students are usually given one or two examples before
being asked to solve a problem in mathematics and
some other subjects. This is done by the teacher in order to
serve as a guide to the students. A student, who fails to use
the given example, may end up missing the answer. In the
same vein, Apostle Pauls life and ministry serves as a
worthy example for all believers to follow.
The passage read today x-rays the life of faith lived
by Paul. He did not compromise his faith in the face of
persecution. Paul pursued integrity in life and ministry with
purity of heart and act, avoidance of personal gain and glory
and walked in humility. As believers, our lives ought to show
inspiring examples of Christ in love, holiness, selfless
sacrifice, passion for souls and humility. What kind of
example are you among believers and unbelievers? Can
people testify that you practice what you preach? Do your
classmates or colleagues see you as an impostor, using
Christ name as a mere cover up? Your Christian faith is not
strong if it does not reveal Christ and challenge others to be
like Him.
 Birthday Blessing: A thousand may fall at your side, ten
thousand at your right hand, but it will not come near
you. Psalm 91:7
RBT Passage: John 20-21
"It doesnt matter what everybody is doing  be the change
you wish to see in the world."  Anonymous
T315
Monday, November 11 Isaiah 40:6-9
GODS WORD IS TRUE AND RELIABLE
The grass withers and flowers fall, but the word of our God
endures forever. Isaiah 40:8
istorically, the Bible has survived many attempts to
exterminate it by those who considered it offensive to
them. Some, in the process of destroying and discrediting
the written Word of God have been touched and changed by its
transforming power. Someone wrote, Although many have tried
to contaminate it, corrupt it and otherwise do away with it, it has
remained  intact, unscathed and unrivaled. It is truly Gods Word,
unique among all the so-called Scriptures of all ages.
Todays passage compares Gods Word with humans.
Human beings are likened to grass and flowers, which have
short life span but Gods Word endures and lives forever.
Human beings are prone to change and disappointment
because of the human nature. But the Word of God cannot fail
or fade because it is true and trustworthy; correct and current;
sure and safe. In a world of changing values and standards,
you can trust in the unchanging Word of God to guide and
guard your life in your journey on earth to heaven. Since Gods
Word is God-inspired it cannot expire. It is God-approved to
prove our worth in His sight. Commit it to head and heart; it will
never confuse you but connect you with your divine destiny.
Has God spoken anything concerning your life? Believe that it
will come to pass because His words are true and reliable.
 Birthday Blessing: But blessed is the one who trusts in
the LORD; whose confidence is in Him. Jer. 17:7
RBT Passage: Acts 1-3
"Begin at the beginning of Genesis, and read to...Revelation,
and see if you can find, that there were any that trusted in
the Lord, and were confounded"  John Bunyan
H316
Tuesday, November 12 Romans 7:14-25
JESUS ENABLES VICTORY OVER SIN
Thanks be to God, who delivers me through Jesus Christ
our Lord! Romans 7:25a
uring the Welsh revival, a notorious drunkard was
converted. The bar owner was angry to lose such a
good customer, and called out to him one day as he
passed the bar: Whats gone wrong, Charlie? Why do you
keep passing by instead of coming in? With a skyward
glance and a grateful tear glistening in his eyes, Charlie
replied: Sir, it is not just that I keep passing by; we pass by!
Ah, yes, it is the secret! We pass by Jesus and I. Faith
unites me to the living Christ, so that His life flows to me."
Paul also had struggles with sin. He was trapped in sin,
and tried to free himself by his own human effort. The good
he wanted to do was not possible because the law of sin
has held him in bondage. Until he surrendered to Jesus, he
remained in slavery to sin. Thereafter, the power of sin was
broken and the glory of God broke forth in his life. Are you
struggling with sin too? Do you tell lies, fornicate or you are
filled with lustful thoughts. There is victory in Christ. He has
paid your ransom from slavery to sin. All you need to do is
to come to Him in humility and faith in order to have
dominion over sin. Then together with Jesus you will live
above go past sin like Charlie.
 Birthday Blessing: If you say, The LORD is my refuge,
and make the Most High your dwelling, no harm will
overtake you; no disaster will come near you. Psalm
91:9-10
RBT Passage: Acts 4-5
"SIN is Satan Identification Number, which only the blood of
Jesus can delete."  Gbenga Osho
D317
Wednesday, November 13 Romans 13:8-10
LOVE ONE ANOTHER
Let no debt remain outstanding, except the continuing
debt to love one another, for whoever loves others has
fulfilled the law. Romans 13:8
ove is one of the most common words used today,
particularly among young people. It is common to hear
them say, I love you. Most of the contemporary
movies and soap operas shown on the screen are replete
with love stories, mirroring the state of the society. However,
a number of people do not understand the true meaning of
agape love as expressed by God through Jesus Christ to the
world. To some, love is about having sexual affairs with the
opposite sex. Others simply love those who love them.
The passage of today reveals the mind of God regarding
how to show love to one another. According to Paul, love is a
debt that we owe one another. It means that everybody
deserves to be loved. It does not give room for discrimination
either as a result of language, age, sex, religion or social class.
Love is the fulfilment of Gods law, which enhances our moral
and spiritual lives. To love one another, we must relate with
one another in purity of heart and do no harm to one another.
Love demands that what we cannot do to ourselves, we do not
do to others. It does not take undue advantage of others. In
other words, treat others the way you want them to treat to
you. Let your life reflect the sacrificial love of Jesus.
 Birthday Blessing: And I pray that you, being rooted and
establish in love, may have power to grasps how wide
... and deep is the love of Christ. Ephesians 3:17-18
RBT Passage: Acts 6-7
"Whatever a person may be like, we must still love them
because we love God."  John Calvin
L318
Thursday, November 14 Romans 8:1-11
NEW LIFE THROUGH THE SPIRIT
You, however, are not in the realm of the flesh but are in
the realm of the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God lives in
you. And if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, they
do not belong to Christ. Romans 8:9
he story is told about a little boy who was flying a kite.
It was a windy day, and the kite kept going higher and
higher. Finally, it got so high that it was out of sight. A
man passed by and saw the little boy holding unto the
string. The man could not see the kite, and he asked the
boy, How do you even know you have a kite up there? The
boy replied, Because I can feel it. Although we cannot see
the Holy Spirit, we should be able to sense His work in our
lives changing us into the image of Christ.
Paul asserts in todays passage that it is only those
who possess the Spirit of God that can live to please God.
Gods Spirit regenerates and lives in those who have
accepted Christs offer of salvation. This is the beginning of
a new life, which terminates the power of the old sinful
flesh. However, it is not enough to have the Spirit of Christ,
He must be allowed to govern our lives in accordance to the
will of God. In the process, our thought and action will align
with the life of Christ, making Him known to the world.
Therefore, let the Holy Spirit have His way in your life.
 Birthday Blessing: In famine He will deliver you from
death, and in battle from the stroke of the sword. Job
5:20
RBT Passage: Acts 8-9
"You do not need to work to become spiritual. You are
spiritual; you only need to remember that fact. Spirit is
within you. God is within you."  Julia Cameron
T319
Friday, November 15 Galatians 5:16-26
LIVE BY THE SPIRIT
Since we live by the Spirit, let us keep in step with the
Spirit. Galatians 5:25
father and son arrived in a small western town
looking for an uncle whom they have never seen.
Suddenly, the father, pointing across the square to a
man who was walking away, exclaimed, There goes my
uncle! His son asked, How do you know when you have
not seen him before? Son, I know him because he walks
exactly like my father. The Spirit of God is capable of
producing the godly character of Christ in us, so that we
look exactly like Him.
Todays devotion is a continuation of yesterday's -- new
life through the Spirit. Paul admonished the Galatian
believers to walk in the Spirit, thereby overcoming fleshy
and self-centred desires. The evil and immorality we see in
the church and the world at large are products of the flesh.
Christians are to be different in their conduct and character
as they allow the Holy Spirit to guide and work in them. The
only available option to counteract works of the flesh such
as lying, greed, cheating, sexual immorality, hatred, selfish
ambition and envy, is to live by the dictate of the Spirit who
enables us to bear Christlike fruit. A Spirit-controlled life is a
God-centred while a self-controlled life is a sin-centred.
Choose one today.
 Birthday Blessing: You will be blessed when you come
in and blessed when you go out. Deuteronomy 28:6
RBT Passage: Acts 10-11
"If we walk in the Spirit, the world should know us by our
walk."  Lee Roberson
A320
Saturday, November 16 1 Peter 1:3-12
REJOICE IN GODS ACTIONS IN CHRIST
In this you greatly rejoice, even though now for a little while,
if necessary, you have been distressed by various trials.
1 Peter 3:6, NAS
y family and I were invited by some friends to
spend a summer holiday in three West African
Countries. I broke the news to my children ahead
of the holiday and they couldnt just wait for the time. I also
used the trip as a motivation for good performance in
school. I listened to my children as they talked severally
about their improved performance, praying for the families
who had invited us, and expressing their excitement about
the idea of travelling to three countries on a holiday.
Similarly, there are wonderful things that God has done for
us through Christ, which call for rejoicing. God has given us new
birth and living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ
from the dead, He has prepared for us an imperishable
inheritance and is presently preserving us through His power
until that glorious moment which shall be revealed at the end of
age. The certainty of these should cause us to rejoice, even
though we presently pass through some suffering and trial for a
while. We are being refined like gold in the fire and our faith shall
be proved to be genuine and result in praise, glory and honour at
the revelation of Christ. Let us therefore, love the Lord, believe in
Him and allow our hearts to be filled with an inexpressible and
glorious joy. For what He has promised is sure.
 Birthday Blessing: And I will make you a great nation,
and I will bless youGen. 12:2a
RBT Passage: Acts 12-13
"Our Heavenly Father is pleased when we dont compromise
our faith and principles in times of desperation. David Green
M321
Sunday, November 17 1 Peter 1:13-25
CALL TO HOLY LIVING
Because it is written, "You shall be holy, for I am holy."
1 Peter 1:16, NAS
coach led an athlete to a beach in Accra, Ghana.
While the coach was relaxing on a chair under a
canopy with some drinks to cool off, the athlete was
busy on a sunny afternoon performing some routine
exercises marked out by the coach. The athletes efforts
seemed to pass unnoticed by the coach who only charged
him to move on any time he wanted to stop. This was
necessary because of what lies ahead of the athlete. The
present suffering will become nothing when compared to
the future glory.
In the same way, Apostle Peter wanted the Christians
in Asia-Minor to prepare for the glory that was placed before
them. Their preparations include the need to be selfcontrolled; non-conformity to the evil desires of the world;
being holy; living as strangers in the world; being pure and
obedient and loving the brethren. The same is expected of
us who have been redeemed through the precious blood of
Jesus and are having our faith and hope in God. Having
been born again, we have the responsibility of living lives
worthy of our calling. Like that athlete, we must constantly
prepare for the glory which is to be revealed in due time.
The Word of God urges us on to victory.
 Birthday Blessing: And I will establish My covenant
between Me and you, And I will multiply you
exceedingly. Gen. 17:2
RBT Passage: Acts 14-15
Honor is the presence of God in Man. Pat Conroy
A322
Monday, November 18 Revelation 22: 14-17
THE SPIRIT AND THE BRIDE SAY COME
And the Spirit and the bride say, "Come." And let the one
who hears say, "Come." Revelation 22:17a, NAS
hen asked what the secrets of his success in three
consecutive Olympic competitions were, Usain Bolt
mentioned among other things his strict adherence
to some set of discipline which pertain mostly to his social life
and food intake. He also said that his preparation for another
Olympic begins when one competition ends.
Our text for today speaks about the importance of
preparations in waiting for the coming kingdom. The happy
ones, here, are those who wash their robes  those who
avoid being stained by the dirty things of this world. They
are the ones who by virtue of their conscious preparations
shall enter Gods kingdom. But dogs (homosexuals), those
who practice magic arts (witchcraft), the sexually immoral,
the murderers, the idolaters and all who practice falsehood
will be shut outside the kingdom. The Holy Spirit is crying
aloud to us to come out of the dirty acts of this dying world.
The Lord Jesus is offering you forgiveness from dead works
and inviting you to accept the free gift of eternal life. Are
you a child of God, then stay focused and keep preparing. If
you have derailed, the Spirit and the Bride are saying come.
If you are not yet born again, you can receive the invitation
to receive Christ into your life today.
 Birthday Blessing: But you shall serve the LORD your
God, and He will bless your bread and your water
Exodus 23:25a
RBT Passage: Acts 16-17
Opportunity doesnt make appointments; you have to be
ready when it arrives. Tim Fargo
W323
Tuesday, November 19 Psalm 90
OUR DWELLING PLACE
O satisfy us in the morning with Thy loving-kindness, That
we may sing for joy and be glad all our days. Psalm 90:14
salm 90 is titled, A payer of Moses, the man of God.
On one hand, it portrays Israels forty years of
enforced sojourn in the desert (Deut. 8:15) on its
journey to the Promised Land which resulted in their
backwardness among the community of nations. Their route
to freedom took so long (apparently under the wrath of God)
that their backwardness became obvious. On the other hand,
in spite of the dismal state of the Israelites which was as a
result of their disobedience (which they acknowledged in all
sincerity), they also knew through faith that Gods unfailing
love can be confidently appealed to (v. 14).
Two main reflections emerged from these. First, the
Lord, who has ever been our dwelling place (v. 1) has
shown us the power of His wrath (v. 7). Second, God is the
everlasting One (v. 2), while we must come to terms with
the little numbers of our days (v. 12). These two reflections
necessitate the prayer in verses 13-17 and especially v.14.
Do you realise that your time on earth is fleeting? Your
entire life lasts for a brief time. You need God for your little
time to make meaning. The questions we ask, When will
this or that be? How will this or that happen? can only
find answers in God Our Dwelling place.
 Birthday Blessing: And He said, My presence shall go
with you, and I will give you rest. Exodus 33:14
RBT Passage: Acts 18-19
Within the covers of the Bible are the answers for all the
problems men face Ronald Reagan
P324
Wednesday, November 20 2 Peter 3:8-10
ONE DAY LIKE ONE THOUSAND YEARS
But do not let this one fact escape your notice, beloved,
that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a
thousand years as one day. 2 Peter 3:8, NAS
young man travelled to Lagos in the early 80s in
order to spend the holiday with his brother who
worked there. He was able to locate where his brother
lived and gained entrance in his brothers absence. Few
hours later while still waiting for his brother to return from
work, he took a stroll down the road and the unfortunate
thing happened. Police on patrol picked him up with the
charge of purposeless wandering and was remanded at the
Kirikiri Maximum Prison. To cut a long story short, it took
seven years before he got bailed out by a foremost Lagos
lawyer. When he was asked how the seven years seemed to
him, he answered, Each day was like a year. Imagine how
long it took to wait for that freedom.
God is patiently waiting for us to come to repentance. He
does not delight in anyone perishing. We should not think
that His judgment is delayed; the day of the Lord will certainly
come like a thief in the night. You need a Saviour who can
save your soul from eternal damnation. Please accept Jesus
today and repent from your sin. Jesus is the advocate
(lawyer) that you need. Have you backslid? Do not wait for
judgment to overtake you. Repent for the kingdom of God is
at hand. This whole world is coming to an end someday.
 Birthday Blessing: So I will turn toward you and make
you fruitful and multiply you... Lev. 26:9
RBT Passage: Acts 20-21
The best preparation for tomorrow is doing your best
today. H. Jackson Brown, Jr.
A325
Thursday, November 21 2 Peter 3:11-15a, 17-18
THE COMING DAY OF THE LORD
Since all these things are to be destroyed in this way, what
sort of people ought you to be in holy conduct and
godliness? 2 Peter 3:11, NAS
little boy pleaded with his father to have their house
re-painted and beautified but the father refused. The
father had received compensation from government
and a quit notice because the house was billed for
demolition to allow for other development. While they
marked time, the father was building a new house for them
in another part of the town. But as that delayed, the little
boy pressured on until the father asked him, Of what value
will be a renovation on a house that is scheduled for
demolition with time?
The above question is relevant to our text. Since
everything in this world is awaiting destruction, should we
live in it and allow ourselves to be corrupted by it so much
that we are destroyed with it? No! We certainly cannot
afford to be so influenced by the corruption of this world to
the destruction of our souls. What then are we to do? The
text recommends the following things: we must live holy
and godly lives; we must look forward to the day of the Lord,
which will usher in the home of the righteous; we must
ensure that we are not carried away by the evil practices of
this world; and continue to grow in grace and knowledge of
our Saviour and Lord Jesus Christ.
 Birthday Blessing: My shield is with God, Who saves the
upright in heart. Psalm 7:10
RBT Passage: Acts 22-23
Heaven will be the perfection weve always longed for. All the
things that made Earth unlovely be absent. Billy Graham
A326
Friday, November 22 Luke 9:28-36
THIS IS MY SON; LISTEN TO HIM!
And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, "This is My Son,
My Chosen One; listen to Him!" Luke 9:35, NAS
NA paternity test is the use of DNA profiling to
determine whether two individuals are biologically
related. It is a legal process that ascertains the true
paternity of a child. Many cases of a childs paternity have
been resolved through DNA test. God had sent many
prophets before the coming of Christ so much that most
people of Jesus day took Him for one of the prophets. In
todays text, God bears witness to the person of Christ by
affirming that He is His beloved Son. That is the divine
testimony concerning the identity of Jesus Christ and we
know that Gods Word cannot be faltered. God further says
about Jesus Listen to Him.
Who is Jesus to you? Do you think of Him as one of
Gods prophets? The truth is that Jesus is the Son of God;
He is Christ, the Saviour of the world. God commands
everyone including you to listen to Jesus. Obeying Jesus'
leadership assures us of a beautiful ending. Have you
accepted Jesus as your Saviour and Lord? Or, do you still
belong to the league of those who question His divine
relationship with God the Father? God says Jesus is His
Son; believe that and you will be saved. Endeavour to
develop your relationship with God through complete
obedience to Christ and enjoy God's friendship.
 Birthday Blessing: The angel of the LORD encamps
around those who fear Him, And rescues them. Ps 34:7
RBT Passage: Acts 24-26
You are not what others think you are. You are what God
knows you are Shannon L. Alder
D327
Saturday, November 23 2 Peter 1:16-21
SOLID REASONS FOR HOPE
We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye
do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a
dark place...and the day star arise in your hearts: 2 Pet 1: 19
ccording to Wikipedia, Hope is an optimistic state of
mind that is based on an expectation of positive
outcomes with respect to events and circumstances in
ones life or the world at large. There are divergent opinions
regarding the means of salvation and the way to reach God. All
religions of the world offer some kind of expectation to their
adherents and this makes people abandon one religion for
another in search of a more assuring hope.
No truth can be more assuring than that which reveals
Christ as the King and Saviour of the world. Peter emphatically
states that faith in Christ is not based on cunningly devised
fables, which other religions propose. Rather, it is based on
eyewitness account of Christs majesty as attested to by God,
the Father who bestowed such glory and honour on His Son. Not
only that, but also of a sure Word of prophecy, which holy men
spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. No religion offers
such solid reasons for hope as Christianity. No amount of pain
we go through can shake the hope we have in Christ. Let this
hope in Christ encourage your heart to press on. Believe in the
Lord Jesus Christ and be assured that your expectation will yield
a positive outcome at the appearance of our Lord Jesus Christ.
 Birthday Blessing: O taste and see that the LORD is
good; How blessed is the man who takes refuge in Him!
Psalm 34:8
RBT Passage: Acts 27-28
Hope is being able to see that there is light despite all of
the darkness. Desmond Tutu
A328
Sunday, November 24 2 Peter 1:1-15
ALWAYS KEEP THE FAITH
Wherefore the rather, brethren, give diligence to make your
calling and election sure: for if ye do these things, ye shall
never fall: 2 Peter 1:10 (KJV)
hen soldiers are dispatched for an operation, they
are given rules of engagement and final charge by
the commander. They are expected to carry out
their assignment in a professional way, being mindful of the
charge given to them. Doing the right things will ensure that
they properly represent their country.
The Christian faith also comes with a charge for every
believer to remain standing till the end. Peter admonishes all
Christians to add certain ingredients to the faith which they
already profess. The ingredients are: virtue; knowledge;
temperance; patience; godliness; brotherly kindness (treating
others as brothers or sisters); and charity (love). These are the
ingredients that make the Christian life fruitful. We must
endeavour to live in a manner that honours God at all times,
even in the midst of trials and tests. We must strive to treat
others better than ourselves and show love to everyone, even in
the midst of hatred. Is your Christian life barren or fruitful? Or,
are you blind and cannot see far and you need to be reminded
that you have been saved? You have a charge to keep for
making your calling and election sure by constantly walking in
God's light and shinning this light on the paths of others.
 Birthday Blessing: But as for me, the nearness of God
is my good; I have made the Lord God my refuge, That I
may tell of all Thy works. Psalm 73:28
RBT Passage: Romans 1-3
God will never give you anything you cant handle, so
dont stress. K. Clarkson
W329
Monday, November 25 Deuteronomy 18:1-5
DUTIES OF THE LEVITICAL PRIESTHOOD
"For the LORD your God has chosen him and his sons from
all your tribes, to stand and serve in the name of the LORD
forever. Deuteronomy 18:5 (NAS)
ccording to Wikipedia, Duty is a term that conveys a
sense of moral commitment or obligation to someone
or something, it is the binding or obligatory force of
something that is morally or legally right, an action or task
required by a persons position or occupation. The levitical
priesthood had the obligatory function of standing to
minister in the name of the Lord. Today, as the Scripture
says, we equally have an obligation. God has chosen us out
of many others by grace to serve Him. We have been called
out of darkness into Gods marvellous light in order to
declare His praise (1 Peter 2:9). This is a duty that we must
be faithfully committed to.
Now that you know that you are duty bound, you must
rise above excuses and fulfil your obligations of making
Christ known to others. The devil may try to place obstacle
on your path, lay hold of the power of God that is at work in
you. It is a great privilege to be found worthy of God's
service; therefore, we must give it all it takes. It is an
obligation to God and duty to Christ. Live your life as a
member of a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, and a
holy nation. Your lifestyle should show forth Gods praise
it is a duty!
 Birthday Blessing: The grass withers, the flower fades,
But the word of our God stands forever. Isaiah 40:8
RBT Passage: Romans 4-7
We never fail when we try to do our duty, we always fail
when we neglect to do it. R. BadenPowell
A330
Tuesday, November 26 1 Chronicles 13:5-8, 13-14
DAVID DELIVERS ARK TO OBED  EDOM
So David did not take the ark with him to the city of
David, but took it aside to the house of Obed-edom the
Gittite.1 Chronicles 13:13 (NAS)
he Ark of the Covenant symbolises Gods presence
among the Israelites. Recall that they carried it from
place to place and moved with it on their journey. At
some point, the ark was captured by the Philistines during a
battle and David longed to see its restoration. The
Philistines were forced to let go of the ark when they were
struck with series of disasters. When David arranged for the
ark to be brought into Jerusalem, another disaster struck on
the way  Uzzah died. As a result, David was displeased
and afraid of taking the ark into his palace. The Ark was
delivered into the house of Obed-edom whose household
experienced tremendous blessings for the entire period that
the Ark was with him.
Gods presence is not to be rejected by us but revered
and cherished. His presence brings a lot of blessings as was
the case in Obed-edoms life. When we follow God's
instructions for our lives we not only enjoy God's presence
but also enjoy every good thing that comes with His
presence. As Christians, we should earnestly desire Gods
presence and live lives worthy of that glorious presence. Let
us open our hearts, lives and homes to receive Gods holy
presence. Pray and invite Gods presence into your life today.
 Birthday Blessing: He gives strength to the weary, And
to him who lacks might He increases power. Isa 40:29
RBT Passage: Romans 8-10
Everybody has to be responsible for their own actions
Kate Mara
T331
Wednesday, November 27 1 Chronicles 15: 4-13
LEADER TO BRING ARK TO JERUSALEM
So the priests and Levites consecrated themselves in order to
bring up the ark of the LORD, the God of Israel. 1 Chro. 15:14
od assigned the Levites as His chosen priests to stand
and minister in his name (Deut. 18:5). They were,
therefore, supposed to lead the Israelites in all religious
celebrations of which carrying the Ark of Covenant was a major
assignment. However, when King David made the first attempt
at returning the ark to Jerusalem, he assigned individuals who
were not priests. This resulted in Uzzah's death. Subsequently,
when David launched out a second time, he engaged the right
persons, encouraged them to sanctify themselves for the
assignment and the result was different  a huge success.
This implies that: Gods work must be done in accordance with
divine regulation; our intensions must be weighed by divine
revelation; and we must accord respect to divine order and
give honour to whoever it is due.
Do you have a clear template of your assignment?
Where have you gotten it wrong in your service to God?
Have you been applying the wrong methods or have you
been acting in ignorance? You can ask God for forgiveness
and determine to get it right. Pray that you will be rightly
guided by the Word of God and His Spirit. Remember that
your service is unto God and it must meet certain standards
in order for it to be acceptable to Him.
 Birthday Blessing: I will strengthen you, surely I will help
you, Surely I will uphold you with My righteous right
hand. Isaiah 41:10b
RBT Passage: Romans 11-14
A leader is one who knows the way, goes the way, and
shows the way. John Maxwell
G332
Thursday, November 28 1 Chronicles 16:1-6
ARK PLACED IN TENT IN JERUSALEM
And they brought in the ark of God and placed it inside the
tent which David had pitched for it, and they offered burnt
offerings and peace offerings before God.1 Chronicles 16:1
n artist asked a lady at a beach to pose for fifteen
minutes while he hurriedly did a painting of her on a
board. When he showed her the painting, she was
amazed at how he perfectly captured her image. She wanted
to have the painting but the artist demanded for $100 and
her reaction was, $100 for fifteen minutes work? The artist
responded, This is rather a work of fifteen years training
and if you like let me pose for 15 hours so that you can do
the painting he said. The truth is that, work becomes like
play when it gets to the hands of experts.
Consider also, how bringing the ark up to Jerusalem and
setting it in a Tent at Davids second attempt looked smooth
and easy. When the wrong persons attempted it at first, the
whole thing ended in disaster. The second attempt, however,
ended in great jubilations, the people were blessed both
spiritually and materially. The Levites took their rightful place
in the service of God. It is important to allow the Spirit of God
to guide us in our services to Him. The Spirit should decide
for us who should lead and the right steps to be taken. We
should allow others to serve as we also serve, our combine
efforts will bring more glory to God. Let us not quench other
peoples gifts just to promote ours.
 Birthday Blessing: I will appoint you as a covenant to
the people, As a light to the nations. Isaiah 42:6b
RBT Passage: Romans 15-16
Right actions for the future are the best apologies for
wrong ones in the past. T. Edwards
A333
Friday, November 29 1 Chronicles 16:37-43
REGULAR WORSHIP SERVICES RESUMED
So he left Asaph and his relatives there before the ark of
the covenant of the LORD, to minister before the ark
continually, as every day's work required.1 Chro. 16:37
he absence of the Ark of Covenant from among the
Israelites had adverse effects one of which was their
inability to hold regular worship services. Returning
the ark to its place, therefore, became a great blessing
regular worship services resumed and the entire people
were happy. The ark symbolised the presence and glory of
God in the midst of His people so much that when it was
carried away, the news of it caused Eli to slump and broke
his neck and died, the wife of Phinehas also, named her
child I-chabod (the glory has departed from Israel).
In the same way, our regular worship services will be
meaningless as long as Gods presence and glory are not
established. The exercise will be empty and futile  void of
essence. Even our individual worship of God makes no sense
without the presence of God. We must, therefore, like the
Israelites, seek to restore rightful relationship with God in order
for our worship to be acceptable to Him. The only way to restore
our relationship with God is to renew our faith in God and follow
His instructions to the letter. We should also consecrate
ourselves for the service of God. What are those challenges
hindering you from offering regular worship to God? Take them
to God in prayers and enjoy tremendous breakthrough.
 Birthday Blessing: Do not call to mind the former
things, Or ponder things of the past. Isaiah 43:18
RBT Passage: 1 Corinthians 1-4
It is not fitting, when one is in God's service to have a gloomy
face or a chilling look. Saint Francis of Assisi
T334
Saturday, November 30 Romans 12:1-8
ENGAGING IN SPIRITUAL WORSHIP
Therefore, I urge you, brothers, in view of God's mercy, to
offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to
God  this is your spiritual act of worship. Romans 12:1
an is made of spirit, soul and body but the body is
weak and it can easily compromise. Thus, the need to
keep it under check becomes a necessity. The inability
to control the desires of their bodies has been the reason for the
downfall of many. The Bible warns against yielding to the desires
of the flesh (1 John 2:15-17). Paul at this point also talks about
the need for Christians to deal with the body  present your
bodies as living sacrifice. There are three ways Paul advices us
to go about this. First, we must not conform to the standard of
this world. Whatever we do that agrees with the pattern of this
world is a compromise and conformity. Second, we must be
transformed through the renewal of our minds. To experience
transformation, we must renew our minds.
A corrupt mind cannot conform to divine standards.
Third, we must engage in spiritual worship. This requires
the manifestations of spiritual gifts for the building of the
body of Christ. How is your own worship life? Are you still
conforming to the standard of this world or you are daily
seeking to be transformed through the renewal of your
mind? Present your body now as a living sacrifice to God
that your service to Him may be reasonable and acceptable.
 Birthday Blessing: Behold, I will do something new,
Now it will spring forth; Will you not be aware of it?
Isaiah 43:19a.
RBT Passage: 1 Corinthians 5-9
It is the pleasing of God that is at the heart of worship.
R. C. Sproul
M335
Sunday, December 1 1 Chro. 15:1-3, 14-16, 25-29a
REJOICE IN GODS FAITHFULNESS
So David and the elders of Israel went to bring up the ark of
the covenant of the LORD from the house of Obed-Edom,
with rejoicing. 1 Chronicles 15:25, NIV
ev. John MacDeath once said "Sometimes God sends
His love letters in black-edged envelopes." He allows
us to taste the bitterness of want and the desolation
of bereavement. At such times it may become difficult to
see the hand of God or believe that He is work in our
favour. It looks as if things have gotten out of hand, and
somehow we have been forgotten. When we get to this
point, the best thing to do is to remember the faithfulness
of God evident in previous situations and believe that
indeed "God is faithful, who will not suffer the pain to
exceed the measurement of my endurance.""
The children of Israel had lived many years without the Ark
of God, which stands for the presence of God because it was
taken away by their enemy. After a long time, the ark was
restored to its rightful place and everything changed. God
showed His faithfulness to His children when they least expect.
Our situations and experiences in life cannot turn God's
faithfulness into unfaithfulness. He remains faithful in all
situations and as believers we should constantly rejoice in this.
The challenges you are facing right now is a good opportunity for
God to show His faithfulness if only you will allow Him. Turn
those things to God in prayer and experience divine turn around.
 Birthday Blessings: I will maintain my love to him
forever, and my covenant with him will never fail.
Psalm 89:28, NIV
RBT Passage: 1 Corinthians 10-13
"It is both a privilege and duty to rejoice in the Lord." - A.W. Pink
R336
Monday, December 2 Isaiah 45:20-25
ALL NATIONS INVITED TO WORSHIP GOD
"Turn to me and be saved, all you ends of the earth; for I
am God, and there is no other." Isaiah 45:22, NIV
.B. Simpson once said that the gospel, "Tells
rebellious men that God is reconciled, that justice is
satisfied, that sin has been atoned for, that the
judgment of the guilty may be revoked, the condemnation
of the sinner cancelled, the curse of the Law blotted out,
the gates of hell closed, the portals of heaven opened wide,
the power of sin subdued, the guilty conscience healed, the
broken heart comforted, the sorrow and misery of the Fall
undone." Today's passage is an invitation to everyone to
acknowledge the awesome power of God through worship
and reaffirm His faithfulness. God is interested in
everyone irrespective of whom they are and what they do.
His utmost desire is that everyone will worship Him
genuinely. Are you bothered about your present sinful
state? It does not matter what your life has been before
now, God is a just God and a Saviour. He is willing to give
you a fresh start. Has He promised you something and it is
looking like it will not come to pass? Be assured that every
Word that is spoken of God will surely come to pass
because he has sworn by Himself. Make Him your Lord so
that you can also enjoy righteousness and strength in Him.
 Birthday Blessing: Surely he will save you from the
fowlers snare and from the deadly pestilence.
Psalm 91:3, NIV
RBT Passage: 1 Corinthians 14-16
"Worship is an inward feeling and outward action that
reflects the worth of God." John Piper
A337
Tuesday, December 3 Deuteronomy 26:1-11
RESPONSE TO GODS GENEROSITY
And you and the Levites and the aliens among you shall
rejoice in all the good things the LORD your God has given to
you and your household. Deuteronomy 26:11, NIV
couple visited a missionary and there they saw a
father and his son working in a rice paddy. The old man
guided the heavy plough as the boy pulled it.
"I guess they must be very poor," the man said to the
missionary who was their guide. "Yes," replied the missionary.
"That's the family of Chi Nevi. When the church was built,
they were eager to give something to it, but they had no
money. So they sold their ox and gave the money to the
church. This spring they are pulling the plough themselves."
After a long silence, the woman said, "That was a real
sacrifice." The missionary responded, "They do not call it a
sacrifice. They are just thankful they had an ox to sell."
Many people find it very difficult to give to God.
Probably they have forgotten that there nothing we have
that we have not first received from God. God instructed the
children of Israel to bring the tenth of everything He has
given to them and rejoice in all that He has provided for
them. How do you also respond to God's blessings in your
life? Are you willing to bless people around you? Do you
even rejoice in what you have or you murmur over what you
do not have?
 Birthday Blessing: For in him we live and move and
have our being... Acts 17:28 (NIV)
RBT Passage: 2 Corinthians 1-4
"The highest form of worship is the worship of unselfish
Christian service." John Piper
A338
Wednesday, December 4 Psalm 105:1-15
GODS SAVING DEEDS
He allowed no one to oppress them; for their sake he
rebuked kings: "Do not touch my anointed ones; do my
prophets no harm." Psalm 105:14-15, NIV
man in Ireland was convicted of his sin and was on the
verge of accepting Christ when the devil raised the often
repeated objection: If you believe, it wont last. What
about tomorrow? The church worker who told him about
Christ pointed to a water mill nearby. What turns that wheel
today? The stream, he replied. What will turn it tomorrow?
He asked again. The stream. The man responded And the
days after? He probed further. But the man gave the same
answer, The stream. The man was led to see that there is
abundance of God's grace to save, keep, and meet all needs.
Many Christians have fallen victim of the devil's
deception that there is limit to God's saving power. They
have forgotten that God's commitment is everlasting.
Today's passage is calling us to praise God for the things He
has done and also to bring to memory His awesome deeds.
More importantly, we are reminded that God is committed
to taking care of His own and nothing can stop Him. Are
there circumstances that the devil is using to scare you?
Remember that He has promised to reprove kings for your
sake and protect you from every evil. When the devil brings
challenges, remember the One who has the power to save.
Constantly rejoice in this assurance of God's saving ability.
 Birthday Blessing: The Lord bless you and keep you;
the Lord make His face shine upon you.... Num 6:24
RBT Passage: 2 Corinthians 5-9
"You may think you can live fine without Christ but you can't
afford to die without Him." C.H. Spurgeon
A339
Thursday, December 5 Psalm 106:40-48
GODS GRACIOUS COMPASSION
"For their sake he remembered his covenant and out of his
great love he relented. He caused them to be pitied by all
who held them captive." Psalm 106:45-46, NIV
chaplain was ministering to a soldier in the hospital
and said, You have lost an arm in the great cause.
The soldier replied, I didn't lose itI gave it. Jesus
did not lose His life either. He willingly gave it so we could
be reconciled to God. The greatest compassion anyone can
show is the gift of one's life. God's gracious compassion
was made manifest in the gift of His only Son for the
atonement of our sins. He could have left humanity to
perish in their sins, but He chose to have mercy on us by
redeeming us through the sacrifice of His Son.
We should be reminded of this great sacrifice and
respond to it by accepting Christ and also sacrificing for
others around us. If God can give His only Son, then nothing
can be too much for Him to give to us? We can ask for
whatever we need, since we have a great assurance in God
that He will freely give us all because He did not withhold
His Son from us. As Christ gave His life for us, let us also
freely share this life with people around. Let others see
Jesus in you.
 Birthday Blessing: The Lord will make you the head,
not the tailyou will always be at the top, never at the
bottom. Deuteronomy 28:13.
RBT Passage: 2 Corinthians 10-13
"Mercy is not something God has, but something God is."
A.W. Tozer
A340
Friday, December 6 1 Chronicles 16:14-18
GODS FOREVER COVENANT
"He remembers his covenant forever, the word he
commanded, for a thousand generations." 1 Chro. 16:15
woman, after suffering many losses, went to a great
doctor for sympathy. After being in his study for some
time, she suddenly exclaimed, "I've got it! I've got it!"
The surprised doctor immediately asked what she had got.
Instead of answering directly she pointed to a text over the
mantelpiece, on which were the words "THOU REMAINEST,"
and said, "I see now that no matter how much I lose, God
remains, and He is all I need."
God's covenants are ever sure and His promises are
eternal. Though times may change and seasons may pass,
but the Word of God will never change. Today's passage is a
reminder that God's covenant transcends human life, it is to
all generations. He confirmed the covenant He made with
Abraham, Isaac and to Jacob. He also made a covenant
with Israel and fulfilled it. This shows that God's covenants
with us will never change. Whatever God has decided to do
no man can change it. Therefore, it does not matter what
anybody says as far as God has not said it, it cannot be
established. What has God spoken concerning you or your
family? Rest assured, no circumstance can change His
promises. He will surely keep His Words and fulfil them.
Just trust in Him.
 Birthday Blessing: He is like a tree planted by streams
of water, which yields its fruit in season and whose leaf
does not wither. Whatever he does prospers. Ps. 1:3
RBT Passage: Galatians 1-3
"When God says "I will" it forms a covenant."
Reinhard Bonnke
A341
Saturday, December 7 1 Chronicles 16:28-36
GODS FOREVER STEADFAST LOVE
"Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; his love endures
forever." 1 Chronicles 16:34, NIV
fter an earthquake in a small town, a father rushed to
his son's school only to find that the school had been
flattened. There was no sign of life. But he had no
thought of turning back. He had often told his son, "No
matter what, I'll always be there for you when you need me!"
Though the situation appeared hopeless, the father began
removing the rubbles from where he believed his son's
classroom had been. Finding strength and endurance
beyond himself, the loving father continued to dig. Then in
the 38th hour, he heard voices. "Armand!" he screamed. A
child's voice responded: "Dad! It's me... Armand!" "I told the
other kids not to worry that if you were alive, you'd save
me!" While the townspeople praised Armand's dad, his
explanation was, "I promised my son, 'No matter what, I'll be
there for you!'"
Today, we are reminded of God's unchanging love even
in a constantly changing world. Diligently and faithfully, God
has showed His love to us. Despite our sinful life, He has
never stopped loving us. Therefore, we have been called to
turn from our sinful ways and praise him continually for this
love that can never be bought. Even when you are buried
under a heavy yoke of sin, remember that God's steadfast
love is always there to help you.
 Birthday Blessing: Surely he will save you from the
fowlers snare and from the deadly pestilence. Ps 91:3
RBT Passage: Galatians 4-6
"Trusting God's unfailing love is the pathway to unending
peace." T.Thomas
A342
Sunday, December 8 1 Chronicles 16:8-13, 19-27
GODS WONDROUS DEEDS FOR ALL PEOPLE
"Remember the wonders he has done, his miracles, and
the judgments he pronounced." 1 Chronicles 16:12, NIV
ave you ever wondered how the sea knows just
where to stop? Or how the sun knows just when to
show up? When we consider the nature around us,
we cannot but stand in awe of God. The way He is
administering the universe and how everything seems to
know what to do per time is indeed amazing. Even when we
are down and do not even expect to see God, He will still
show up to rescue us. Today's passage is a call to worship
God for all the mighty things He has done in our lives. If we
consider the works of our hands, we will discover that God
has not dealt with us according to the multitude of our sins.
While others see hopelessness, God sees a renewed
hope. Where others see death, God sees life. This was what
made Him give His only Son to restore human kind back to
Himself. Instead of making a long list of requests, why not
give God praise and thanksgiving for all He has done for you
and the ones He is yet to do? God has shown us so much
mercy than we ever deserve, let us therefore reciprocate
this act of love with genuine adoration.
 Birthday Blessing: But you will receive power when the
Holy Spirit comes on you. Acts 1:8
RBT Passage: Ephesians 1-3
"A God wise enough to create me and the world is wise
enough to watch out for me." - Philip Yancey
H343
Monday, December 9 1 Chronicles 22:6-13
DAVID CANNOT BUILD THE TEMPLE
But this word of the LORD came to me: 'You have shed much
blood and have fought many wars. You are not to build a
house for my Name, because you have shed much blood on
the earth in my sight. 1 Chronicles 22:8, NIV
inding a place in the service of God is such a great
privilege that must be cherished. But unfortunately,
many people take it with levity and act as if God does
not have a choice other than to use them for His service.
David was a man after God's heart yet God did not find him
fit to build His house. His sin of shedding too much blood
stood against him. Even when he felt God would not get a
better choice, God showed him that He would rather use
the generation coming after him for His purpose. Many
people are not worthy of the Lord's service yet the grace of
God found them. God is the only One that chooses who to
use for His service. What He expects from us is to position
ourselves in the right place and do the right things all the
time. Has God given you a particular assignment and you
are feeling like He cannot do without you? Humble yourself
today so that both you and your service will not be rejected
like David. If God can reject the service of David, a man
after His heart, there is no service He cannot reject. Put
away those things that will not make you worthy of God's
service? Ask for grace to make things right today.
 Birthday Blessing: The Lord blessed the latter part of
Jobs life more than the first. Job 42:12.
RBT Passage: Ephesians 4-6
"Service to God is a privilege not a right." - T. Thomas
F344
Tuesday, December 10 1 Chronicles 28:2-10
SOLOMON TO BUILD THE TEMPLE
He said to me: 'Solomon your son is the one who will build
my house and my courts, for I have chosen him to be my
son, and I will be his father. 1 Chronicles 28:6-7, NIV
he thoughts of God are far beyond human
comprehension and His ways are unsearchable. He
honours one and despises the other. He is the
sovereign God whose deeds are unquestionable. God chose
Solomon among many other children in place of his father
to build Him a house. David told Solomon that God has
promised to establish his kingdom if only he will constantly
do His will. David encouraged his son to get to know God
personally so that he can serve Him willingly and with a
perfect heart. We cannot faithfully serve a God that we do
not know.
To serve God acceptably, we must first develop a
personal relationship with Him. God has also chosen you to
be His son or daughter. He did this by giving His only Son
for your sake. The sacrifice of Jesus Christ reveals God's
commitment to be our Father only if we choose to remain
His children. The only way to prove our sonship is to obey
His commandments and yield to His instructions. But you
cannot fully do this if you have not known Him. Determine
to build a personal relationship with God today and
experience the working of His power.
 Birthday Blessing: So we can say with confidence,
The Lord is my helper; I will not be afraid. What can
man do to me? Hebrews 13:6.
RBT Passage: Philippians 1-4
"God chooses a man He can work on and walk with."
T. Thomas
T345
Wednesday, December 11 1 Chronicles 21:2822:1
ORNANS LAND IS SITE OF TEMPLE
At that time, when David saw that the LORD had answered
him on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, he
sacrificed there. 1 Chronicles 21:28, NKJV
ne of the war memorials dedicated to the Americans
reads: "Think not only upon their passing, remember
the glory of their spirit." These words were written in
memory of those who gave their lives for the love of their
country. When one considers the sacrifice people make for
the things they love, one will discover that there cannot be
love without giving. Ornan willingly gave his threshing floor
to David to sacrifice to God. This genuine act of love led to
the place becoming a house of God. If Ornan had refused to
allow David use his land for the burnt offering, he would
have missed the opportunity to provide a house for God.
Many people get so carried away by their personal
survival that they find no time or space for God. Sometimes
people get so carried away by their possessions that they
find it difficult to part with them. they do not know that they
are denying themselves of certain blessings that comes
with such sacrifice. The first thing God is asking is the
ownership of our lives. Like He took over Ornan's floor and
turned it into His dwelling place, He wants to own your life
and turn it into His abode forever. Will you give Him a
chance?
 Birthday Blessing: See, I have placed before an open
door that no one can shut. Revelation 3:8.
RBT Passage: Colossians 1-4
"Only one life, 'twill soon be past. Only what's done for
Christ will last." - C.T. Studd
O346
Thursday, December 12 2 Samuel 7:1-11a
GOD NEEDS NO HOUSE
"Go and tell My servant David, 'Thus says the LORD: "Would
you build a house for Me to dwell in?" 2 Sam 7:5-6, NKJV
any times we feel we know exactly what God wants.
We feel if we consider the environment we live and
the things happening around us, we will be able to
determine what God requires of us. We have forgotten that
many things that seems right before man are far from God's
desire. David saw that God had given him rest from all his
enemies. He had given him victory in all his battles, so he
decided to build a house for God in appreciation of what
God had done for him.
God told him not to bother about building a house for
Him. Instead for God to accept David's offer, He promised
to build a house for His people and save them from all
those who afflict them. This does not mean that God
rejected David's gift, but, He rather saw a need to do exactly
for David what he wanted to do for Him. As much as we
desire to do things for God, we should also ask Him
whether those things are needed at that time. As believers,
what God can do for us is far beyond what we can do for
Him. He is willing to do beyond our expectations if we will
only allow Him to work through us.
 Birthday Blessing: but that year they ate of the
produce of Canaan.Joshua 5:12.
RBT Passage: 1 Thessalonians 1-5
"The greatest form of praise is the sound of consecrated
feet seeking out the lost and helpless." - Billy Graham
M347
Friday, December 13 1 Chronicles 17:7b-10
GODS MAKES A HOUSE FOR DAVID
"'I declare to you that the LORD will build a house for you:
1 Chronicles 17:10-11, NIV
ne of the best acts of kindness is the one we least
expect. David showed his intentions to build a house
for God without knowing the gravity of such thought
in God's sight. Even though God did not allow him to build it,
God rewarded his intention. God built a house for David in
the royal realm - a dynasty of kings. This was not a physical
house but a privilege to always have one of his
descendants as king in Israel. This was far too great a
reward compared to David's intention to build a physical
house for God. There are times when our intentions to give
to the Lord weighs as much in His sight as the actual giving.
Nothing is too small or too big to give to God as far as
the intention to give is sincere. No matter how big our gift
for God's work is, it can never be compared to what God
can give in return. You do not have to be persuaded or
begged before giving to God. We should respond to His call
to give with joy and excitement because God does not owe
any man. All we need to do is to be sincere, cheerful and
honour God with our substance always.
 Birthday Blessing: ...the Lords unfailing love
surrounds the man who trusts in him. Psalm 32:10
RBT Passage: 2 Thessalonians 1-3
"God is the greatest giver in the universe, He won't let you
outgive Him." - Randy Alcon
O348
Saturday, December 14 Psalm 138
THE LORD REGARDS THE LOWLY
Though the LORD be high, yet hath he respect unto the
lowly: but the proud he knoweth afar off. Psalm 138:6, KJV
pastor told a story of how he saw God in a revelation
giving awards to His servants. When it was the turn of
his church, he was sure God would have a little hard
time making a choice from the church's four associate
pastors and five dedicated deacons, not to mention the
youth coordinator and other spiritual people. But to his
utmost surprise, God did not pick any of these people, but
went straight to meet a man anyone hardly noticed in the
church. This pastor became angry and asked God for what
He saw in this man. God told Him that while other workers
were noticed and members graciously reward them, this
man remained unnoticed yet committed to His service.
Our passage today reminds us of what God looks for in
a service - a humble heart. God is concerned about a heart
that is humble in all situations and not proud at any time.
There is a very thin line between testifying to God's
faithfulness and bragging. The intention behind our actions
determines whether we are humble or proud. Do not act
because you want to be noticed by people, rather act in
such a way that God alone will notice you and He who sees
your labour in secret will reward you in the open.
 Birthday Blessing: But my horn shalt thou exalt like
the horn of a unicorn: I shall be anointed with fresh oil.
Psalm 92:10
RBT Passage: 1 Timothy 1-6
"God bestows His blessing without discrimination."
- F.F. Bruce
A349
Sunday, December 15 1 Chronicles 17:1-4, 11-14; 21:18-27
TWO HOUSES FIRMLY SETTLED
He shall build Me a house, and I will establish his throne
forever. 1 Chronicles 17:12-13, NKJV
od intended that every life will make a note and
leave a message that will inspire the next
generation. Every man, through his faith must be
able to secure a future for the next generation. David lived
his life in such a way that secured generational blessing for
everyone coming after him. He walked with God to a point
where God decided not just to bless him but to also bless
his children and his entire lineage.
David wanted to build a house for God. He felt
uncomfortable with the fact that he lived in a mansion,
whereas the ark of God was placed in a tent. God saw the
intent of his heart and told him not to build Him a house,
rather He will make his children build the house and in turn
God promised to build David a house that will last forever.
How we live our lives will not only affect us but it will also
affect everyone coming after us. To live a life that bestows
blessings on our children requires living consciously in the
will of God. Striving daily to understand the mind of God per
time and living in line with His will. What kind of legacy are
you passing to the people coming after you?
 Birthday Blessing: The Lord hear thee in the day of
trouble; the name of the God of Jacob defend thee.
Psalm 20:1
RBT Passage: 2 Timothy 1-4
"Sometimes our denial denies our generation a testimony."
- Gbenga Kotila
G350
Monday, December 16 Luke 1:57-66
JOHN THE BAPTIST BORN TO ELIZABETH
He asked for a writing tablet, and to everyone's
astonishment he wrote, "His name is John." Luke 1:63-64
aiting is one the most difficult things for
humankind to do. Often times, we want quick
manifestation of everything God has said. While it
is true that God's words will surely come to pass, we must
not also forget that one of life's principles is patience. It
takes time for every seed to bring forth fruits. But no matter
how long it takes, once a seed is sown, it will surely spring
forth.
Elizabeth and Zachariah had been without a child for
many years. Imagine how fervent they must have prayed to
God for the gift of a promised child. Imagine the insults they
would have received from people, the pity looks and the
gossip about what could be wrong with them. Despite all
these, they chose to wait for the promise of God and it came
to pass in due time. At the christening of the baby, it was
evident that both parents heard from God concerning the
identity of their child because they both gave him the same
name at different times and everyone saw that God was
indeed with the child. Waiting can be difficult but when we
ask God for grace to wait patiently we will be able to wait for
His promises to be fulfilled. God cannot lie. Whatever He has
said concerning your life, He will surely do. Just trust Him!
 Birthday Blessing: Call unto me, and I will answer
thee, and show thee great and mighty things, which
thou knowest not. Jeremiah 33:3
RBT Passage: Philemon 1; Titus 1-3
"The future is as bright as the promises of God."
- Christian Quote
W351
Tuesday, December 17 Luke 1:67-79
ZECHARIAH BLESSES GOD FOR JOHNS MINISTRY
His father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and
prophesied: "Praise be to the Lord, the God of Israel,
because he has come and has redeemed his people.
Luke 1:67-68, NIV
aving an encounter with God brings about
wholesome change in people's lives. The kind of
turnaround that happens after an encounter with
God can be really amazing. It completely changes a person
and can make every wrong be made right. It is quite
amazing that the same Zachariah who doubted God's Word
earlier before the birth of his son later saw clearly the plan
and purpose of God through his child, John. Our God is full
of mercy and He is always willing to forgive us the moment
we acknowledge our wrongs and repent of them. The
moment Zachariah declared the name 'John' for his son,
which is a sign of obedience and submission to God's will,
the Holy Spirit opened his spiritual eyes and He was able to
speak about the purpose and the future of his child. God is
still in the business of speaking through His anointed
servants in our generation. We should be sensitive enough
to know when He is speaking and be obedient enough to
respond to His Word. When He sends His word, He releases
power to backup it so that it will bring evident changes in
our lives. How has God's Word changed you? Pray for a
special encounter today.
 Birthday Blessing: the one who comes to Me I will by
no means cast out. John 6:37
RBT Passage: Hebrews 1-4
"God speaks to those who take time to listen and He listen
to those who take time to pray." - Unknown
H352
Wednesday, December 18 Isaiah 7:10-17
YOUNG WOMANS PREGNANCY IS SIGN OF IMMANUEL
Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign: The virgin
will be with child and will give birth to a son, and will call
him Immanuel. Isaiah 7:14 NIV
he soul of everyman craves for peace especially in the
midst of chaos. We all want an assurance that the
difficulty we are passing through will soon be over and
every passing day we want to believe that we are closer to
the end than before. The feeling was the same for the
people of Judah. King Ahaz and the people of Judah were
troubled and confused when they heard the king of Assyria
was set to attack Jerusalem. In their state of fear, God sent
a word of encouragement to them, assuring them of His
presence. God promised to send a sign by making a virgin
conceive and give birth to a Son that will be named
Immanuel. No matter the problem or challenges we might
be facing in life, Immanuel, meaning God with us, is the
greatest comfort we can ever have. Prophet Isaiah gave this
word of assurance to the people and all their fears were
gone. As believers, our confidence must never be in the
abundance of our wealth or tactical approach to solving
problems, but our confidence must always be in the
assurance of God's presence in our lives. God is our refuge
and His presence is our peace.
 Birthday Blessing: I will put My Spirit within you and
cause you to walk in My statutes, and you will keep My
judgments and do them Ezekiel 36:27, NKJV
RBT Passage: Hebrews 5-8
"Worry is believing God won't get it right." -Todo Wagner
T353
Thursday, December 19 Luke 1:26-33
VIRGIN CONCEPTION ANNOUNCED TO MARY
You will be with child and give birth to a son, and you are to
give him the name Jesus. Luke 1:31, NIV
t is easier for a couple trusting God for the fruit of the
womb to believe a prophecy for the gift of a child, than it
is for a virgin who is still single. In this instance it is a lot
difficult to believe and fear of disappointment sets in. This
was the difference between Zachariah and Mary's
responses to the same prophecy. Mary, in her simplicity
made further enquiry from the angel about how the
prophecy will come to pass. One the other hand, one can
say that Mary was asking the angel whether there another
way to get pregnant apart from having a union with a man?
God saw the humble and sincere heart of Mary and gave
answers to her questions. When God's Word hits us at
angles we find impossible to understand, instead of
doubting, we can choose to ask for more light in the same
direction. God is never weary of providing answers to our
questions, provided they are borne out of a sincere desire
to know more of Him and not to doubt His ability to help us.
Everything God is doing in our lives is for a purpose. He
made a virgin to conceive because He wants Immanuel to
be born. Also, believe that everything God is doing in your
life is for a purpose.
 Birthday Blessing: For I will look on you favourably and
make you fruitful, multiply you and confirm My
covenant with you. Leviticus 26:9, NKJV
RBT Passage: Hebrews 9-10
"Stop talking yourself out of what God has called you to do."
-Steven Furtick
I354
Friday, December 20 Luke 1:34-38
MARY ACCEPTS MIRACLE OF PREGNANCY
"I am the Lord's servant," Mary answered. "May it be to me
as you have said." Then the angel left her. Luke 1:38, NIV
esponse is a very vital aspect of communication.
When a party gives a piece of information and there
is no response or a negative response is given, it
may discourage the one who initiated the communication
and cause communication breakdown. When the angel
gave Mary the news of what was about to happen to her,
she asked a question to clear her curiosity. Even though
she was surprised, she received the news with total
surrender to the will of God. She knew that what the angel
said was beyond what she can bring to pass on her own, so
instead of bothering herself about it, she chose to believe
that the One who has said it is able to bring it to pass.
The major problem believers have is that in our mind,
we have set a limit for God. We try to predict what He can
do and what He cannot do. So when He is speaking we
have a way of shutting our ears to things that are difficult to
relate with. But the truth is that God still speaks today and
He still does miracles, but how we respond to these things
matters. When God tells you about things around you how
do you react? Do you react in faith or doubt? How we react
determines the extent of God's manifestation we will enjoy.
 Birthday Blessing:  may He who supplies seed to the
sower, and bread for food, supply and multiply the
seed you have sown and increase the fruits of your
righteousness. 2 Cor. 9:10, NKJV
RBT Passage: Hebrews 11-13
"God never made a promise that was too good to be true."
--Christian Quote
R355
Saturday, December 21 Matthew 1:18-25
JOSEPH OBEDIENTLY HONORS MARYS ROLE
When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord
had commanded him and took Mary home as his wife.
Matthew 1:24-25, NIV
r Viktor Frankl, the author of the book "Man's Search
for Meaning," was imprisoned by the Nazis in World
War II because he was a Jew. His wife, children, and
parents were all killed in the holocaust. The Gestapo made
him strip himself totally. As they cut away His wedding ring,
Viktor said to himself, "You can take my wife, you can take
away my children, you can strip me of my clothes and my
freedom, but there is one thing no person can ever take
away from me -- that is my freedom to choose how I will
react to what happens to me!"
Even under the most difficult circumstances of life,
happiness is a choice that transforms our tragedies into
triumph. Joseph was already engaged to Mary, the love of
his life, only to discover that she had become pregnant. The
first question that would cross anyone's mind is "by who?"
Joseph could have chosen to leave Mary and nobody would
have been able to blame him for his action, but he chose to
believe the Word of the Lord concerning his seemingly
unfortunate situation. How do you react to situations God
allowed on your path to fulfilment? Are you careful enough
to see the hand of God in your life? Look beyond what
people say around and focus on the Word of God.
 Birthday Blessing: So you shall serve the Lord your God,
and He will bless your bread and your water. And I will
take sickness away from the midst of you. Exo 23:25
RBT Passage: James 1-5
Faith takes God without any 'ifs'. D.L. Moody
D356
Sunday, December 22 Luke 1:39-56
BLESSED MOTHERS OF THE FAITHFUL
"Blessed is she who has believed that what the Lord has
said to her will be accomplished!" Luke 1:45, NIV
any times people try so hard to find different ways
to please God. Some can do anything and
everything within their capacity as far as they
believe that God will be moved. In as much as it is not
wrong to do things for God, trying to win God's heart by our
actions might be a difficult task. One sure thing that moves
the heart of God anytime is faith. When we believe God's
Word, we move His heart and hand to fulfil that which He
has spoken.
Elizabeth and Mary got the word of God through an
angel and they chose to believe it against all odds. They
knew God's Word is superior to whatever they might be
facing and so they stood on the promises of God and
generations after them called blessed. When God's word
comes to us, how do we react to it? It may not come the
way we want it or sound good in our ears, the truth is that
our emotions is not strong enough to stop God's Word but
our doubt can hinder it. James said in the Scripture that a
double-minded man will not receive anything from God. Do
you also desire to be celebrated like Mary and Elizabeth?
Then have faith in God by meditating on His Word and
choosing to believe in Him at all times.
 Birthday Blessing: Humble yourself in the sight of the
Lord, and He will lift you up. James 4:10.
RBT Passage: 1 Peter 1-5; 2 Peter 1-3
Only God Himself fully appreciates the influence of a
Christian mother in the moulding of character in her
children. Anonymous
M357
Monday, December 23 Psalm 89:19-37
GODS FOREVER COVENANT WITH DAVID
I will maintain my love to him forever, and my covenant with
him will never fail. Psalm 89:28, NIV
hen God decides to honour a man, there is no one
that can stand against it. Sometimes, you may
even wonder what God saw in a person that made
him or her qualify for such mercy. Many times, what makes
people qualify is beyond what they did or did not do, it is
simply God's decision to bestow His honour on them. David
was one of such rare personality whom God chose to
honour despite his numerous sins. God singled him out and
established a covenant with him forever.
The covenant God made with David was eventually
fulfilled in the person of Jesus Christ, who came as the Son
of God and at the same time the Son of David. This
covenant has also been transferred to everyone that
chooses to believe in the sacrifice of Christ for humanity. As
believers can enjoy everything God promised David
because we have an inheritance in Christ Jesus. We can be
assured that whatever God has promised us will surely
come to pass, irrespective of what we are passing through
presently. Since God's promises have also been established
in your life forever, key into it and enjoy these blessings
forever.
 Birthday Blessing: And my God shall supply all your
need according to His riches in glory in Christ Jesus
Phil. 4:19
RBT Passage: 1 John 1-5
God's love is the surest anchor in life's stormy blast.
T. Thomas
W358
Tuesday, December 24 2 Samuel 7:11b-17
THE LORD WILL BUILD DAVIDS HOUSE
"'The LORD declares to you that the LORD himself will
establish a house for you. 2 Samuel 7:11b, NIV
n one of his messages on praise, Joel Ostein gave an
example of his daughter who came to him to request for
a car as a birthday present. After she made sure he had
given his consent, she left with full assurance that her dad
will definitely buy the car. Once in a while, she would sit on
his laps singing his praise and telling him how grateful she
was for the car he is yet to buy. At such times, he would feel
like making the car two instead of one. Many people
wonder what made David so precious to God. Why God will
be willing to do anything and everything for him. The answer
is simple. David knew how to trust God for His promises. He
knew how to praise God for just anything, even the things
He has not done.
God, in today's passage promised to build a house for
David and establish his throne forever. This promise was
fulfilled in the person of Jesus Christ, the Son of David. If
only we can trust God like David, a lot of our problems
would have become a testimony. What has God promised
you? Learn to trust Him wholeheartedly and see His power
wroth wonder on your behalf.
 Birthday Blessing: So you shall rejoice in every good
thing which the Lord your God has given to you and
your house Deut. 26:11
RBT Passage: 2 John 1; 3 John 1; Jude 1
The Christian does not think God will love us because we
are good, but that God will make us good because He loves
us. -C.S. Lewis
I359
Wednesday, December 25 2 Samuel 7:18-22
NO GOD LIKE OUR GOD
"How great you are, O Sovereign LORD! There is no one like
you, and there is no God but you, as we have heard with
our own ears. 2 Samuel 7:22, NIV
teacher was telling her class how everything in the
world was formed prove to them that God does not
exist. She said, "Look out the window. You can't see
God, can you?" The kids shook their heads. "Then our logical
conclusion is that God does not exist, does He?" she asked at
last, certain that she had won her audience over. But a girl
said, "Miss Smith, just because we can't see it doesn't mean
it doesn't exist. We could do brain surgery and investigate the
parts of your brain and see the brain patterns in your head.
But we couldn't prove that you've had a single thought today.
Does that mean that you haven't thought anything today?
Just 'cause you can't see it doesn't mean it doesn't exist."
David, in today's passage does not need anything to prove
that God exist. The things God did for him are enough proof of
His existence. David considered everything happening around
him and gave praises to God for them. He offered a prayer of
thanksgiving to God, acknowledging what He has done for him.
When we around us, we will discover that a lot of thing would not
have come into being if not for God's intervention. At such times,
we should be bold to proclaim the name of the Lord and declare
His faithfulness among the nations. Endeavour to share your
experience of God's faithfulness with someone today.
 Birthday Blessing: May He send you help from the
sanctuary, and strengthen you out of Zion Psalm 20:2
RBT Passage: Revelation 1-3
Even in our dark times, God is still there. His light still
shines. Anonymous
A360
Thursday, December 26 2 Samuel 7:23-29
NO PEOPLE LIKE GOD'S PEOPLE
And who is like your people Israel  the one nation on earth
that God went out to redeem as a people for himself, and to
make a name for himself 2 Samuel 7:23, NIV
here is no nation in the world as special and Godacclaimed as the people of Israel. God loved Abraham
and brought forth a nation from his lineage.
Interestingly, the Saviour of the world came from this nation
and thereby fulfils Gods promises to Abraham that
"through thy seed, all the nations of the world will be
blessed". King David was aware of this wonderful promise
of God to His people. He, in his prayer of thanksgiving,
acknowledged how special his people are to God. He based
his judgments on what God has done since their exodus
from Egypt to Canaan land and how Gods love has
sustained them.
The community of believers is the present day nation of
Israel. God made us His people by the sacrifice of Jesus on the
cross. The death of Jesus Christ provided us a place among
those who will inherit the promises and blessings of Abraham.
We should see ourselves therefore as full partakers of His
special choice and always live to show that we belong to Gods
family. Do not allow the devil to feed you with his lies. Re-affirm
your sonship in Christ every day, especially at difficult times
and you will experience tremendous change.
 Birthday Blessing: So I will restore to you the years
that the swarming locust has eaten Joel 2:25a
RBT Passage: Revelation 4-7
You may have some big obstacles, but if you will be grateful
for where you are, then God can get you to where you want
to be. Anonymous
T361
Friday, December 27 1 Chronicles 22:2-5
DAVID SELECTS MATERIALS FOR TEMPLE
David said, "My son Solomon is young and inexperienced,
and the house to be built for the LORD should be of great
magnificence...in the sight of all the nations. Therefore I will
make preparations for it." So David made extensive
preparations before his death. 1 Chronicles 22:5, NIV
hen I was in primary school, a classmate of mine
gave something to someone and the person
rejected it. In order to cover up the shame of
rejection, the giver quickly said, I didnt want to give you in
the first place, I just wanted to test you. Even though God
rejected the offer of David to build a temple for Him, David
didnt see it as a discouragement. He went further to
prepare the materials for the building of the temple. He not
only prepared the things his son would need to build the
temple, he made sure that those materials were the best
anyone could find around.
This singular act of David further reflects why God
loved him. Giving to Gods work does not have to come
directly from you with your name attached to it. It can be
given without anyone noticing. What matters to God is the
intent of our hearts. God loves a cheerful giver and in every
way we can, let us provide for Gods work without calling
attention to ourselves. Also, when we have the privilege to
give to God, let us give God the best and not the rest. What
we give to God reflects the kind of value we place on Him.
 Birthday Gift: Seek the LORD while he may be found;
call on him while he is near. Isaiah 55:6
RBT Passage: Revelation 8-11
Until obedience is absolute, pleasing God is an illusion.
Bode Thomas
W362
Saturday, December 28 1 Chronicles 22:14-19
DAVID ORIENTS BUILDERS ABOUT TEMPLE
CONSTRUCTION
He said to them,"Now devote your heart and soul to
seeking the LORD your God. Begin to build the sanctuary of
the LORD God, so that you may bring the ark of the covenant
of the LORDinto the temple that will be built for the Name
of the LORD." 1 Chronicles 22:18-19, NIV
eadership is a lifetime responsibility. It can be said that a
leader have succeeded in leadership only when he is
able to set a pace for the next generation to also
succeed. David served the Lord with all his heart and he led
Gods people to follow the laws of God. When he was about to
die, he made resources available for the construction of Gods
temple and also gave instructions on how to go about it.
God is a detailed and orderly God. Just like when the first
tabernacle was erected in the wilderness when Moses
received instructions from God on how to build it. David also
gave instructions to the builders on how to go about the
building of the temple of God. We cannot do Gods work in our
way. In other to please God, His work must be done His own
way. This can only be done when we pay attention to Gods
instruction through the mouth of His prophets/servants. Where
ever God has placed us, as children of God, people are looking
up to us for instructions on how to please God and follow His
will. Are you ready to fulfil this assignment? David did this
before he died. Will you also lead other to follow Christ?
 Birthday Blessing: I will bless those who bless you,
and I will curse him who curses you Gen. 12:3a
RBT Passage: Revelation 12-14
Discipleship is a lifestyle filled with relationships; a life of
pouring yourself out for others. Anonymous
L363
Sunday, December 29 1 Chronicles 17:16-27
DAVIDS PRAYER OF PRAISE AND THANKSGIVING
Then King David went in and sat before the LORD, and he
said: "Who am I, O LORD God, and what is my family, that
you have brought me this far? 1 Chronicles 17:16-17, NIV
n every relationship, praise and thanksgiving go a long
way in encouraging one another. It tells others that their
efforts and sacrifices are being appreciated and it also
says, I want more of your efforts. Few verses before today's
text show that God had just rejected David's gesture to
build a house for Him. The natural response should have
disappointment and discouragement, but David chose to
praise the Lord. David enjoyed a lot of Gods blessings and
favour as a result of his constant praise and thanksgiving to
God. It was more like, the more the praise, the more the
blessing.
This is true because God responds and dwells in the
praises of His people. Our praises and thanksgiving to God
must be more than our requests. This is because while
thanksgiving opens the gate to Gods presence, praise
opens His court and in His presence, all requests are turn
into testimonies. It must therefore be the habit of every
child of God to praise God in all things. In whatever
situation we find ourselves, we should choose to praise God
because we are sure that He will cause all things to work
together for our good.
 Birthday Blessing: And you are complete in Him, who
is the head of all principalities and power. Col. 2:10
RBT Passage: Revelation 15-17
You can't choose what happens in your life, but you can
choose how to respond.  T. Thomas
I364
Monday, December 30 Revelation 11:15-19
HEAVENLY VISION OF THE ARK
Then God's temple in heaven was opened, and within his
temple was seen the ark of his covenant. And there came
flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder, an
earthquake and a great hailstorm. Revelation 11:19, NIV
hen God instructed Moses to build the tabernacle
in the wilderness, He commanded him to build
according to the pattern he was shown. This
means the tabernacle and the ark in it was a copy of the
original in heaven. According to our text today, a heavenly
mode of worship was described as the twenty-four elders
fall down to worship God and to sing of His praise. It was
seen in this heavenly temple as well the ark of covenant,
which symbolizes the presence of God.
As believers, we should always remind ourselves that
we are the temple of the living God and that the Ark of the
Covenant is our heart. Our heart is the seat where the Holy
Spirit dwells. Therefore, we must do all that is within our
power to guard the content of our heart, so that we can
make our heart conducive for the Holy Spirit. What we feed
our ears and hearts will determine how receptive we will be
to the Holy Spirit. It will also affect the quality of our
worship. Therefore, let us continually keep Gods temple
holy so that our worship will be acceptable before Gods
always.
 Birthday Blessing: I will make you into a great nation
and I will bless you. Genesis 12:2
RBT Passage: Revelation 18-19
Nothing moulds a man like serving God.  T. Thomas
W365
Tuesday, December 31 1 Corinthians 14:26-33a
AN ORDERLY WORSHIP SERVICE
But everything should be done in a fitting and orderly way.
1 Corinthians 14:40, NIV
eading through the Scripture from Genesis to
Revelation, we will discover that God is orderly and
peaceful. He is not a God of chaos. In the account of
creation in Genesis, God created all things one after the
other so as to maintain order and balance. While I was
growing up, I have been to some church meetings that was
disorganised, scattered and out of control and I wondered
what form of worship service it was. All these were allowed
in the name of the spirit is flowing. Apostle Paul saw this
in the Corinthian church and he corrected that all things be
done in order (1Cor 14:26-29).
The move of the Spirit during worship may not be
predictable but how we handle it is what matters so that we
do not appear disorganised or confused. It is our
responsibility to see that order is maintained in our worship.
This is not a law but a good counsel given by the Holy Spirit
through the mouth of Apostle Paul to the church. Our God is
a God of order. Worship service to God should be orderly in
honour of His presence. As path of your preparation for the
new year, determine to be conscious of God's presence
everywhere you go, especially during worship service.
 Birthday Blessing: And the peace of God, which
passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and
minds through Christ Jesus. Philippians 4:7
RBT Passage: Revelation 20-22
God's work done in God's way will never lack God's
provision.  Hudson Taylor
